.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH acl452 4 "02 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
acl452 \- The ACL 4/52 Automated Tape Library
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The ACL 4/52 tape library supports 48 DLT tape
cartridges and 4 DLT tape drives.  The library has a 4 slot import/export
unit that may be used to import or export media into the library.  These
import/export slots may also be used as storage slots thus extending the
storage capacity to 52 slots.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The ACL 4/52 should \fBNOT\fP be configured with auto-clean or auto-load when
running Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS software.  Auto-load may be used during
initial loading of cartridges as long as the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS
software is not running.
.SH IMPORT/EXPORT MEDIA
To import media, the door on the ACL 4/52 must first be opened.  To open the
door, issue the
.BR export (8)
command, then push the OPEN button on the ACL 4/52
front panel.  The door should open and you may place media in any of
the slots.  You may then close the door by pressing the CLOSE button then
manually closing the door when the ACL 4/52 display indicates 
that it is ready.  
The Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS software will not recognize the new media
until the
.BR import (8)
command is issued.
Anytime
you close the door, you must issue the
.B import
function.
.LP
To export media, use the
.BR move (8)
command to move media into the import/export unit then issue
the
.BR export (8)
command.
Push the OPEN button on the ACL 4/52 front panel to open the door.
.LP
If the door is already open, you must close the door and issue the 
.B import
command before attempting to move media into the import/export
unit.
.LP
The slot numbers for the import/export unit are 48, 49, 50 and 51. 
.LP
Note: After opening or closing the door, the ACL 4/52 goes offline until
it has re-initialized.
This will cause delays since the library must
become online before any commands may be issued.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B mcf
The configuration file for the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS software
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR export (8),
.BR import (8),
.BR move (8),
.BR sam-robotsd (8).
.PP
.BR mcf (5).
