.\" $Revision: 1.88 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.TH archiver.cmd 4 "13 Aug 2007"
.SH NAME
archiver.cmd \- Sun StorEdge SAM-FS archiver commands file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Commands for controlling the archiver are read from
.BR /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd ,
which is the archiver commands file.
The
.BR archiver.cmd
file must be free from errors, or the
archiver does not execute.
.PP
Use the 
.B archiver -lv
command to check the
.B archiver.cmd
file for syntax errors. When it is free from errors, use the 
.HP
.B samd config
.PP
command to reconfigure the daemons.
.PP
Archive Sets and associated media are defined in the archiver command file.
Archive Sets are the mechanism that the archiver uses to direct files
in a
.B samfs
file system to media during archiving.
.LP
All files in the file system are members of one and only one Archive Set.
Characteristics of a file are used to determine Archive Set membership.
All files in an Archive Set are copied to the media associated with the
Archive Set.  The Archive Set name is simply a synonym for a collection of
media volumes.
.LP
Files are written to the media in an Archive File, which is written in
.B tar
format.  The combination
of the Archive Set and the
.B tar
format results in an operation that is just
like using the command
.B find
to select files for the
.B tar
command.
.LP
In addition, the meta data (directories, the indices
of segmented files, and the
removable media information), are assigned to an Archive Set to be copied
to media.  The Archive Set name is the name of the file system.  (See
.BR mcf (4)).
.LP
For segmented files, the archivable unit is the segment, not the entire
file, so the properties and priorities apply to the segments themselves
rather than to the entire file.  The index of a segmented file contains
no user data and so is assigned to the meta data archive set.
.LP
Symbolic links are considered data files for archival purposes.
.LP
Each Archive Set may have up to four archive copies defined.  The copies
provide duplication of files on different media.  Copies are selected
by the Archive Age of a file.
.LP
The archiver command file consists of directive lines.
In this man page, the archiver directives are separated
into the following sections and subsections:
.RS
.PP
.nf
General Directives section
Archive Set Assignments section
Archive Copy Definitions section
Archive Set Copy Parameters section
   Archive Set Copy Parameters - General
   Archive Set Copy Parameters - Priority
   Archive Set Copy Parameters - Scheduling
   Archive Set Copy Parameters - Recycling
VSN Pool Definitions section
VSN Associations section
.fi
.RE
.LP
Each of these lines consists of one or more fields separated by white
space.  Leading white space is ignored.  Everything
after a '#' character is ignored.  Lines may be continued by using '\\'
as the last character on the line.
.LP
All parameter settings and Archive Set definitions apply to all file systems
(global) until a file system directive is encountered.  Thereafter, the settings
and definitions apply only to the named file system (local).  The directives
.BR archmax ,
.BR bufsize ,
.BR drives ,
.BR notify ,
and
.BR ovflmin
can only be global and hence are not allowed after the first 
.BR fs =
directive.
.SH GENERAL DIRECTIVES SECTION
General directives are identified by the '=' character in the second
field or no additional fields.
.TP 5
.BI "archmax = " "media target_size"
Set the Archive File maximum size for media
.I media
to
.IR target_size .
Files to be archived will be placed on the media in a single Archive File of
length less than or equal to
.IR target_size .
If a single file is greater than
.IR target_size ,
then this restriction does not apply.
.RS
.LP
Sizes appropriate to the media are used by default. The default size for STK 
Titanium, all LTO, IBM TS1120 and IBM 3592 media is 22GB. The default size for
SKT 9940 media is 11GB. The default size for STK 9840 media is 4GB.
The default size for linear tape is 11GB. The default size for all other tape
media is 8GB. The default size for disk is 1G. The default size for optical
media is 1GB.
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "archivemeta = " state
Set the meta data archiving state on or off.
.I state
may be "\fBon\fR" or "\fBoff\fR".  Meta data archiving is off by default.
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "background_interval = " time
Set the interval between background scans to
.IR time .
.RS
.LP
The default is 24 hours.  If
.I time
is a multiple of days, the background scan will be performed at the
.BR
background_time .
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "background_time = " hhmm
Set the time of day for the background scan to
.I hhmm
local time.
.RS
.LP
The default 0000 (midnight).
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "bufsize = " " media buffer_size " "[ " lock " ]"
Set the archive buffer size for media
.I media
to
.IR buffer_size " *"
.BR dev_blksize ,
and (optionally) lock the buffer.

For \fImedia\fR, specify a valid media type from the list
on the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.

For \fIbuffer_size\fR, specify a number from 2 through 1024.  The
default is 4.  This value is multiplied by the \fBdev_blksize\fR
value for the media type, and the resulting buffer size
is used.  The \fBdev_blksize\fR can be specified in
the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file.

The \fBlock\fR argument indicates whether or not the archiver should
use locked buffers when making archive copies.
If \fBlock\fR
is specified, the archiver sets file locks on the archive buffer
in memory for the duration of the \%\fBsam-arcopy\fR(1M) operation.
This avoids paging the buffer, and it can provide a performance
improvement.  The \fBlock\fR argument should be specified only on
large systems with large amounts of memory.  If insufficient memory
is present, it can cause an out of memory condition.  
The \fBlock\fR argument is effective only if direct I/O is enabled
for the file being archived.
By default, \fBlock\fR is not
specified and the file system sets the locks on all direct I/O buffers,
including those for archiving.

This directive can also be specified on an archive set
basis by placing
the \%\fB-bufsize=\fIbuffer_size\fR and \%\fB-lock\fR directives
between \fBparams\fR and \fBendparams\fR directives.
For
more information on this, see the \%\fB-bufsize=\fIbuffer_size\fR
and \%\fB-lock\fR directives
mentioned later on this man page.

For more information on \fBdev_blksize\fR, see the \fBdefaults.conf\fR
man page.  For more information on enabling direct I/O, see the \fBsetfa\fR(1)
man page, the \fBsam_setfa\fR(3) library routine man page, or
the \%\fB-o\ forcedirectio\fR option on the \fBmount_samfs\fR(1M) man page.
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "drives = " "library count"
Set the number of drives to use for archiving on
.I library
(the library family set name as defined in the mcf) to
.IR count .
The archiver will use only
.I count
number of drives in
.I library
to create archive copies.  This directive prevents the archiver from using all
drives in a library and possibly interfering with staging.
.RS
.LP
The default value is the actual number of drives in the library.
.TP 
Example:
.ft CO
drives = gr50 3
.ft
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "examine = " method
Set the file system examination method to
.IR method .
Files in a file system are examined using the method defined by this directive.
.I method
may be one of:
.RS
.TP 12
.B scan
Scan the file system in the traditional manner.  The first scan is a directory
scan, all successive scans are inode scans.
.TP
.B scandirs
All scans are directory scans.
.TP
.B scaninodes
All scans are inode scans.
.TP
.B noscan
No periodic scans are performed.  Files are examined when they change.
.RE
.RS
.LP
The default examine method is
.BR noscan .
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "fs = " file_system
Start local definitions for file system
.IR file_system . 
All parameter settings and Archive Set definitions will apply only to 
this file system.  This directive may be followed by copy definitions to
define multiple copies for the file system meta data.
.RS
.LP
The defaults are no local definitions and one archive copy for the file
system data.
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "interval = " time
Set the interval between archive operations to
.IR time .
.RS
.LP
The default time is 10 minutes.
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "logfile = " filename
Set the name of the archiver log file to
.IR filename ,
specified as an absolute pathname.
The archiver log file contains a line for each file archived.  The line
contains information about the file that includes the date, time,
media, volume, Archive Set, and the name of the file.
Note that it is possible to have a separate log file for each file system
(by placing a "logfile =" definition after a "fs =" definition).
.RS
.LP
The default is no log file.
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "notify = " filename
Set the name of the archiver event notification script file to
.IR filename .
This file is executed by the archiver to allow the system administrator
to process various events in a site specific fashion.  The script is called
with a keyword for the first argument.  The keywords are:
.BR emerg ,
.BR alert ,
.BR crit ,
.BR err ,
.BR warning ,
.BR notice ,
.BR info ,
and 
.BR debug .
Additional arguments are described in the default script.
.RS
.LP
The name of the default script is:
.IR "/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/archiver.sh" .
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "ovflmin = " "media minimum_size"
Set the minimum size of a file which will require more than one volume for media
.I media
to
.IR minimum_size .
Files to be archived that are smaller than this size will be placed on only a
single volume of the media.  Files that are larger than this size will be allowed
to be written to multiple volumes.
.RS
.LP
If not specified, volume overflow will not take place.
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "scanlist_squash = " state
Control the sam-arfind scanlist consolidation.
.I state
may be "\fBon\fR" or "\fBoff\fR".  If files in two or more subdirectories
with the same parent directory need to be scanned by sam-arfind at a much
later time, the scan entries can be consolidated if
.I state
is
.BR on .
The sam-arfind scanlist consolidation is
.B off
by default.
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "setarchdone = " state
Control the changing of the state of the 'archdone' flag for a file when
the file is examined by sam-arfind.
.I state
may be
.B on
or
.BR off .

When all archive copies for a file have been made, the
.I archdone
flag is set for that file to indicate that no further archive action is
required.  The
.I archdone
flag is used by the archiver only during an inodes scan to avoid looking
up the path name for the inode.  Setting
.I archdone
for files that will never be archived can be a time consuming operation
during directory scans impacting performance when large directories are
scanned.  Therefore, this will no longer be done by default.  To get the
previous behavior, set the 
.I state
to
.BR on .

The default value of
.I state
is
.B off
for
.B examine = scandirs
and
.B examine = noscan.

This option does not affect setting the state of
.I archdone
when archive copies are made.
.RE
.TP 5
.B wait
The archiver will not begin archiving until it receives a start command
from
.IR archiver ,
.IR samu ,
or
.IR samcmd .
This is a mechanism to allow other activities to be performed before
archiving begins.  The wait may be applied globally or to one or more
file systems.
.RS
.LP
The default is no waiting.  However, if archiver.cmd does not exist then the 
default is to wait.
.RE
.TP 5
.BI "timeout = [ operation | media ] " time
External events may cause the archiving I/O operations to stop for indefinite
periods of time.  This will hamper timely archiving of other files that
are not affected by the external delays.  Timeouts are provided for the
operations that may get stopped.  The timeout values for the write operation
may also be specified for individual media.

.I operation
may be one of:
.RS
.TP 12
.B read
Reading the file from the disk.  Default = 1 minute.
.TP
.B request
Requesting the archive media.  Default = 15 minutes.
.TP
.B stage
Staging the file to be archived.  Default = 0 (no timeout).
.TP
.B write
Writing to the archive media.  Default = 15 minutes.
.RE
.SH ARCHIVE SET ASSIGNMENTS SECTION
Archive Set assignments are made by describing the characteristics of the
files that should belong to the set.  The statements that do this are
patterned after the
.BR find (1)
command.  The Archive Set name is the first field,
followed by the path relative to the Sun StorEdge QFS
file system mount point.
The path may be enclosed in quotation mark
characters, for instance,
\fB"project/gifs"\fR.
Within the quoted string, the usual character escapes are
allowed, including octal character value.
.LP
The remaining fields are either the file characteristics for membership
in the set, or controls for the set.
.LP
It is possible that the choice of file characteristics for several Archive
Sets will result in ambiguous set membership.  These situations are resolved
in the following manner:
.TP
1.
The Archive Set with the earliest definition in the command file is chosen.
.TP
2.
Local definitions for the file system are chosen before the global
definitions.
.LP
These rules imply that more restrictive Archive Set definitions should
be closer to the beginning of the command file.
.LP
It is also possible to use the same Archive Set name for several different
file characteristics.  An example would assign files that are owned by
several users into a single Archive Set.
.LP
Assigning files to a special archive set called \fBno_archive\fR prevents
files from being archived.  This can be useful for temporary files.
The \fBno_archive\fR archive set assignment definition must be a
local definition to be effective.
.LP
The Archive Set assignments may be followed by Archive Copy definitions.
.LP
You can specify one or more of the following file characteristics:
.TP
.BI "-user " uname
Include files belonging to user
.IR uname .
.TP
.BI "-group " gname
Include files belonging to group
.IR gname .
.TP
.BI "-minsize " size
Include files greater than or equal to
.IR size .
.I size
may be specified with the suffices 'b', 'k', 'M', 'G', and 'T', for bytes,
kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes, and terabytes.
.TP
.BI "-maxsize " size
Include files less than
.IR size .
.TP
.BI "-name " regular_expression
Include files with full paths that match
.IR regular_expression .
The regular expression is limited to 255 characters.
.TP
.BI "-access " age
Include files whose access time is older than
.IR age .
The age may be specified with the suffixes 's', 'm', 'h', 'd', 'w' and 'y', for
seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks and years.
.TP
.B "-nftv"
By default, the access and modification times of files are validated to
assure that these times are greater than or equal to the file creation time,
and less than or equal to the time at which the file is examined.  This is
to provide proper archiving and unarchiving.

For files that have been "migrated" into a directory, this may not be the
desired behavior.  The
.B "-nftv"
(no file time validation) parameter may be used to prevent the validation
of file access and modification times for files that are in the archive
set defined by these definitions.
.TP
.BI "-after " date_time
Include files that have been created or modified since
.IR date_time .
.I date_time
is in the form "YYYY-MM-DD[Thh:mm:ss][Z]" (ISO 8601 format).

If the time portion is not specified, 'Thh:mm:ss' missing, it is assumed
to be 00:00:00.
If the 'Z' is present,
.I date_time
is UTC, otherwise it is local.

Examples:
 2005-10-08T12:15:47
 2005-10-08
 2005-10-08T17:15:47Z
.TP
.B Example:
When controlling archiving for a specific file system (using the 
.BR "fs " =
.I fsname
directive), directives local to the file system level are evaluated before the
global directives.  Thus, files may be assigned to a local archive set
(including the 
.B no_archive 
archive set) instead of being assigned to a
global archive set.  This has implications when setting global archive
set assignments such as 
.BR no_archive .
.RS
.LP
Assume, for example, the following 
.B archiver.cmd
segment:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
no_archive . -name .*\\.o$
fs = samfs1
allfiles   .
    1   10s
fs = samfs2
allfiles   .
    1   10s
.ft
.fi
.PP
At first look it appears that the administrator
intended not to archive any
of the
.B .o
files in both file systems.  However, since the local archive
set assignment
.B allfiles
is evaluated prior to the global archive set assignment
.BR no_archive ,
the
.B .o
files in in both file systems are archived.
.LP
To ensure that no
.B .o
files are archived, the following segment would be used:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
fs = samfs1
no_archive . -name .*\\.o$
allfiles   .
    1   10s
fs = samfs2
no_archive . -name .*\\.o$
allfiles   .
    1   10s
.ft
.fi
.SH SETTING FILE ATTRIBUTES
The following directives are available to set file attributes:
.TP
.BI "-release " attributes
Set the release attributes (see
.BR release (1))
for all files matching the file characteristics
on this Archive Set definition.
.I attributes
may be any of 'a' always, 'd' reset to default, 'n' never, 'p' partial
or 'sxx' partial size 'xx'.  
.TP
.BI "-stage " attributes
Set the stage attributes (see
.BR stage (1))
for all files matching the file characteristics
on this Archive Set definition.
.I attributes
may be any of 'a' associative, 'd' reset to default, or 'n' never.  

.LP
.SH ARCHIVE COPY DEFINITIONS SECTION
.sp
The Archive Copy definitions determine when the archive copies are made for
the files matching file characteristics.
These definitions consist of lines beginning with a digit.  This digit 
is the copy number.
.LP
The first fields after the copy number are the option flags as described below:
.TP
.B -release
This causes the cache disk space for the files to be released immediately after
the copy is made.
.TP
.B -norelease
This flag may be used to prevent automatic release of cache disk space until
all copies marked with this flag are made.  The 
.B -norelease 
option makes the 
archiver set eligible to be released after all copies have been archived, but 
the files will not be released until the releaser is invoked and selects them
as release candidates. Using this flag on just one copy will have no effect on 
automatic release.
.LP
The combination of
.B -release
and
.B -norelease
will cause the archiver to release the file when all the copies having
this combination are made. With this usage, the archive set is released
immediately, rather than waiting for the releaser to be invoked, as is the
case with the
.B -norelease
option alone.

If the 
.B -release
option is used on a copy that does not have the 
.B -norelease
option set, the file will get released when that copy is made, overriding the
effect of any
.B -norelease
usage on other copies.
.LP
The next field is the Archive Age of the file when the archive copy is made.
The age may be specified with the suffixes 's', 'm', 'h', 'd', 'w' and 'y', for
seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks and years.  The default Archive Age is
4 minutes.
.LP
The next field is the Archive Age of the file when the copy is unarchived.
The default is to never unarchive the copy.
.sp
.LP
.SH ARCHIVE SET COPY PARAMETERS SECTION
.sp
Archive Set parameters may be set after all Archive Sets are defined.  The
beginning of this section is noted by the directive
.BR params .
The section is ended by the end of the archiver command file or the directive
.BR endparams .
.LP
Setting an archive set parameter requires at least three fields:  the
Archive Set Copy, the parameter name and the parameter value.
.LP
The Archive Set Copy is the Archive Set name and copy number separated
by '.'.
.LP
Parameters may be set for all archive sets by using the pseudo Archive Set Copy
.B allsets
for the directive.  If the 
.B allsets
is specified without a copy number, the parameters apply to all Archive Set
Copies.  If specified with a copy number, the parameters apply to only those
Archive Set Copies with the same copy number.  All
.B allsets
directives must occur before those for any actual Archive Set Copies.
.LP
Note:  All parameter default values are 0 or
.B none
unless otherwise specified.
.TP
Example:
.ft CO
allsets -sort path
.br
allsets.1 -drives 3
.br
allsets.2 -drives 2
.br
.ft
.PP
.RS
All Archive Set Copies are assigned the \%\fB\-sort\ path\fR
parameter.  All Archive Set Copy 1 will use 3 drives.
All Archive Set Copy 2 will use 2 drives.
.RE
.PP
If an archive copy of a file is being rearchived, an internal Archive Set
Copy is used for scheduling the archive operation.  It is called a Rearchive
Set Copy, and uses the archive parameters from the actual Archive Set Copy.
If desired, the Archive Set parameters may be set using the Archive Set
Copy name followed by the character 'R'.  The Rearchive Set Copy allows
the users to differentiate 'new' and rearchive operations, and use different
parameters for each operation.
.TP
Example:
.ft CO
archset.2 -drives 3
.br
archset.2R -drives 1 -priority -1000
.br
.ft
.PP
.RS
All 'new' archive copies are written using up to 3 drives.  Rearchive 
copies are limited to 1 drive, and have a lower priority than the 'new'
copies.
.RE
.PP
In addition, the
.BI allsets. copy
forms may be used.  (For example,
.BI allsets. copy R)
.LP
.LP
.SS Archive Set Copy Parameters - General
The general archive set copy parameters are as follows:
.TP
.BI "-archmax " target_size"
Set the Archive File maximum size for this Archive Set to
.IR target_size .
Files to be archived will be placed on the media in a single Archive File of
length less than or equal to
.IR target_size .
If a single file is greater than
.IR target_size ,
then this restriction does not apply.
.RS
.LP
If not specified, the
.B archmax
value for the media is used.
.RE
.TP
.BI "-bufsize = " buffer_size
Set the archive buffer size to
.IR buffer_size " *"
.BR dev_blksize .
The default \fIbuffer_size\fR is 4.
Valid values are 2 through 1024.
.RS
.LP
If not specified, the default
buffer size value for the media is used.
This directive can also be specified as a global directive.
For more information on specifying an archive buffer size, see
the \fBbufsize = \fImedia buffer_size \fR[\fBlock\fR] directive
described on this man page in the GENERAL DIRECTIVES section.
.RE
.TP
.BI "-directio " state
Set the file reading method for archival.
.I state
may be "\fBon\fR" or "\fBoff\fR".  
The reading performance of files for archival can be changed by using
this parameter.  If users are not reading files at the same time that
they are being archived, then selecting
.B on
allows the archiver to read the file without using the system buffer
cache and using pages that users might need.  In the event that users are
reading files while they are being archived, then
.B off
may be a better choice because the system buffer cache will provide data
to the user and the archiver.  The default is
.BR on .
.RE
.TP
.BI "-disk_archive " diskvol (Obsolete)
Defines a disk archive set.  This parameter is obsolete.
Disk archive sets should be defined in the VSN associations or VSN
pool definitions section.
For more information on disk archiving, see
the \fISun StorEdge SAM Storage and Archive Management Guide\fR.
.RS
.LP
All of the other Archive Set parameters work with disk archiving except:
.BR -fillvsns ,
.B -ovflmin
.IR minimum_size ,
.B -reserve
.IR method ,
.BR -tapenonstop .
None of these cause an error if applied to an Archive Set that is assigned to disk archiving.
.RE
.TP
.BI "-drivemax " max_size
Set the multiple drives maximum size for this Archive Set to
.IR max_size .
When the
.B "-drives"
parameter is selected, the amount of data selected to be archived to each
drive will be limited to
.IR max_size .
Using this parameter can result in better drive utilization, because
drives can take different amounts of time to archive files.
.RS
.LP
The default is to not have this parameter set.
.RE
.TP
.BI "-drivemin " min_size
Set the multiple drives minimum size for this Archive Set to
.IR min_size .
When the
.B "-drives"
parameter is selected, multiple drives will be used only if more than
.I min_size
data is to be archived at once.  The number of drives to be used in parallel
will be the lesser of
.I "total_size / min_size"
and the number of drives specified by
.BR "-drives" .
.RS
.LP
The default value is
.BR archmax .
.RE
.TP
.BI "-drives " number
Set the maximum
.I number
of drives to use when writing the archive images for this Archive Set Copy to
removable media.
.RS
.LP
Segments are striped across the specified
.I number
of drives. The segments
are separated into 
.I number
archive files.
.TP
Example:
.ft CO
set_name.3 -drives 3
.ft
.LP
Allows the archiver to use up to 3 drives for archiving files in the 
archive set named
.IR set_name.3 .
.LP
If not specified, one drive will be used.
.RE
.TP
.B "-fillvsns" "[" minfill "]"
The default action of the archiver is to utilize all volumes associated with
an Archive Set for archiving.  When a group of files is to be archived
at the same time, a volume with enough space for all the files will be selected
for use.  This action may cause volumes to not be filled to capacity.
.RS
.LP
Selecting this parameter causes the archiver to attempt to fill volumes by
separating the group of files into smaller groups.  
.LP
The optional
.I minfill
parameter specifies the minimum free space that a volume must have in order to
be included in the above calculation. 
.I minfill
is specified as a file size.
.TP
Example:
.ft CO
-fillvsns 1G
.LP
Volumes will be filled until they have less than 1G free space, after which 
they are considered full.
.ft
.RE
.TP
.B "-lock"
Lock the archive copy buffer for the duration of
the \fBsam-arcopy\fR(1M) operation.
The \%\fB-lock\fR directive is effective only if direct I/O is enabled for
the file being archived.
If not specified, the file system controls the locks on the archive
copy buffer.  By default, this directive is disabled.
.RS
.LP
This directive can also be specified as a global directive.
For more information on controlling the archive buffer locks, see
the \fBbufsize = \fImedia buffer_size \fR[\fBlock\fR] directive
described on this man page in the GENERAL DIRECTIVES section.
.RE
.TP
.BI "-offline_copy " method
This parameter specifies the method to be used for archiving files that are
offline at the time archival is to be made.
.RS
.LP
For selecting the desired offline file archiving method,
.I method
may be:
.TP 8
.B none
Files are staged as needed for each archive tar file before copying to the
archive volume.
.TP
.B direct
Direct copy.
Copy files directly from the offline volume to the archive volume without using
the cache.  Source volume and destination volume are different and two drives
are available.  For best performance in this mode, you should increase
the file system mount parameter "stage_n_window" from its default of
256k.
.TP
.B stageahead
Stage the next archive tar file while the current archive tar file is written to the
destination. With this method, one archive tar file is created on one tape 
drive (or disk archive) while the offline files needed to create the next 
archive tar file are being staged from another tape drive (or disk archive). 
Two drives are available and room is available on cache for
all files in one archive tar file.
.TP
.B stageall
Stage all files before archiving.  Use only one drive, and room is available
on cache for all files.
.RE
.TP
.BI "-ovflmin " minimum_size
Set the minimum size of a file that will require more than one volume in this
Archive Set to
.IR minimum_size .
Files to be archived that are smaller than this size will be placed on only a
single volume of the media.  Files that are this size or larger will be allowed
to overflow one volume to at least one additional volume.
.RS
.LP
If not specified, the
.B ovflmin
value for the media will be used.
.RE
.LP
.TP
.BI "-rearch_stage_copy " copy_number
Use
.I copy_number
for staging an offline copy when rearchiving the copy defined by the
Archive Set.  By default, the file will be staged from the copy being
rearchived.  This option can be used if the copy being rearchived is not
available or
.I copy_number
is located on a faster media.
.TP
\fB-reserve [ \fBset\fP | \fBdir\fP | \fBuser\fP | \fBgroup\fP | \fBfs\fP ]
.br
This parameter specifies that the volumes used for archiving
files in this Archive
Set are "reserved".  If this option is not used, Archive Sets are mixed on the
media specified.  This option specifies that each archive set
has unique volumes.
A so-called "ReserveName" is assigned to volumes as they are selected for use by
the Archive Set.  The ReserveName has three components:  Archive Set, Owner,
and file system.  The keyword
.I set
activates the Archive Set.  The keyword
.I fs
activates the file system component.
.RS
.LP
The keywords
.BR dir ,
.BR user ", and "
.B group 
activate the Owner component.  These three are mutually exclusive.  The Owner
component is defined by the file being archived.
.LP
The
.I dir
keyword uses the directory path component immediately following the path
specification of the Archive Set description.
.LP
The
.I user
keyword selects the user name associated with the file.
.LP
The
.I group
keyword selects the group name associated with the file.
.RE
.TP
.BI "-rsort " method
.TP
.BI "-sort " method
Files in the Archive Set may be sorted according to
.I method
before being archived.  The effect of the sort is keep files together according
to the property associated with the method.
If no method is specified, path sorting is performed.  If
.B -rsort
is used, the sort is performed reversing the order specified by
.IR method .
.RS
.LP
For selecting the sort,
.I method
can be one of the following:
.TP 8
.B age
Sort each Archive File by ascending modification time.
The oldest files are archived first.
.TP
.B none
No sorting of the Archive File is performed.  Files are archived in the
order encountered on the file system.
.TP
.B path
Sort each Archive File by the full pathname of the file.  This method will
keep files in the same directories together on the archive media.
.TP
.B priority
Sort each Archive File by descending archive priority.  The
higher priority files are archived first.
.TP
.B size
Sort each Archive File by ascending file size.
The smallest files are archived first.  The largest files are
archived last.
.RE
.TP
.BI "-tapenonstop"
When files are archived to tape, the default writing mechanism closes the
removable media tape file in between each Archive File.  This action causes
the tape subsystem to write a TapeMark followed by an EOF1 label and two
TapeMarks.  Before another Archive File can be written, the tape must be
positioned backwards over the EOF1 label.
.RS
.LP
Using the
.B tapenonstop
parameter causes the archiver to not close the removable media tape file
between each Archive File, and write a Tape Mark to separate the Archive Files.
This speeds writing Archive Files to tape.  The tape cannot be unloaded in
between Archive Files.
.SS Archive Set Copy Parameters - Priority
.PP
The following parameters allow you to configure a priority system
for archiving files.  In the following priority parameters, the
.IR value s
are \%floating-point numbers such that
.br
\%\fB-3.400000000E+38\fR \(<= \fIvalue\fR \(<= \fB3.402823466E+38\fR.
.TP
.BI "-priority age " value
Set the "Archive Age" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority archive_immediate " value
Set the "Archive immediate" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority archive_overflow " value
Set the "Multiple archive volumes" property multiplier for files in this
Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority archive_loaded " value
Set the "Archive volume loaded" property multiplier for files in this
Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority copy1 " value
Set the "Copy 1" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority copy2 " value
Set the "Copy 2" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority copy3 " value
Set the "Copy 3" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority copy4 " value
Set the "Copy 4" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority copies " value
Set the "Copies made" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority offline " value
Set the "File off line" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority queuewait " value
Set the "Queue wait" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority rearchive " value
Set the "Rearchive" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority reqrelease " value
Set the "Required for release" property multiplier for files in this
Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority size " value
Set the "File size" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority stage_loaded " value
Set the "Stage volume loaded" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set to
.IR value .
.TP
.BI "-priority stage_overflow " value
Set the "Multiple stage volumes" property multiplier for files in this Archive Set
to
.IR value .
.LP
.RE
.SS Archive Set Copy Parameters - Scheduling
As files are identified to be archived, they are placed in a list known
as an \fIArchive Request\fR.  The Archive Request is scheduled for
archival at the end of a file system scan.  The following archive set
parameters control the archiving workload
and assure timely archival of files:
.TP
.BI "-queue_time_limit " time
Set the schedule queue time limit for the Archive Request to
.IR time .
At the end of the time limit, a notification message will be sent once to
alert monitoring entities that the ArchReq has been in the schedule queue
longer than the time limit.
.TP
.BI "-startage " time
Set the interval between the first file to be archived in the Archive Request
and the start of archiving to
.IR time .
This allows time to accumulate archival work after the first file has
been scheduled for archival. The default is set to two hours.
.TP
.BI "-startcount " count
Set the start archiving file count to
.IR count .
When
.I count
files have been identified for archival in the Archive Request, the 
archival operation begins.
The default is set to 500,000.
.TP
.BI "-startsize " size
Set the minimum total size of all files to be archived after the first file
to be archived in the Archive Request to
.IR size
(in bytes).  This allows the accumulation of archival work to be based on
the total size of the files that have been scheduled for archival.
The default is set to
90% of the \fR-archmax\fR value.
.PP
If more than one of \fB-startage\fR, \fB-startcount\fR,
or \fB-startsize\fR are specified, the first condition
encountered starts the archival operation.
.PP
If neither \fB-startage\fR, \fB-startcount\fR, nor \fB-startsize\fR
are specified, the archive request is scheduled based
on the \fBexamine=\fImethod\fR directive, as follows:
.TP 3
\(bu
If \fBexamine = scan | scaninodes | scandirs\fR, the archive request
is scheduled for archiving after the file system scan.  Note
that \fBexamine = noscan\fR is the default.
.TP
\(bu
If \fBexamine = noscan\fR, the default values are as follows:
 \fBstartage\fR 2 hours
 \fBstartcount\fR 500,000
 \fBstartsize\fR 90% of archmax
.RE
.PP
The \fB-startage\fR, \fB-startcount\fR, and \fB-startsize\fR directives
optimize archive timeliness versus archive work done.
These values override the \fBexamine=\fImethod\fR specification, if any.
.PP
Example 1.  If it takes an hour to create files for an Archive Set
that uses \fB-sort path\fR, then you can specify \fB-startage 1h\fR
ensure that all files are created before scheduling the Archive Request.
.PP
Example 2.  You can specify \fB-startsize 150G\fR to direct the
archiver to wait until 150 gigabytes of data
are ready to be archived in an Archive Set.
.PP
Example 3.  If you know that 3000 files will be generated for
archival, then specify \fB-startcount 3000\fR to ensure that
the files get archived together.
.LP
.SS Archive Set Copy Parameters - Recycling
The following archive set parameters control recycling by archive set.
If none of the following parameters are set for an archive set
and the name of the archive set is not specified on the recycler's
command line,
the archive set will not be recycled.
Volumes which comprise
that archive set (unless also assigned to other archive sets) could 
be recycled as part of recycling the library which contains them.
.TP
.BI "-recycle_dataquantity " size
This option sets a limit of
.I size
bytes on the amount of data
the recycler will schedule for rearchiving so as to clear volumes of
useful data.  Note that the actual number of volumes selected for 
recycling may also be dependant on the
.B -recycle_vsncount
parameter.
The default is 1 gigabyte (1G).
.TP
.BI "-recycle_hwm " percent
This option sets the high water mark (hwm) for the archive set.
The hwm is expressed as a percentage of the total capacity of the
volumes associated with the archive set.  When the utilization of those
volumes exceeds
.IR percent ,
the recycler will begin to recycle the
archive set.  
The default is 95%.
This option is ignored for disk media recycling.
.TP
.BI "-recycle_ignore "
This option inhibits the recycler from recycling this archive set.
All recycling processing occurs as usual, except any media selected
to recycle are not marked "recycle".  This allows the recycler's
choice of media to recycle to be observed, without actually recycling
any media.  
.TP
.BI "-recycle_mailaddr " mail-address
This option specifies an email address to which informational
messages should be sent when this archive set is recycled.  
The default is not to send any mail.
.TP
.BI "-recycle_mingain " percent
This option limits selection of volumes for recycling to those which
would increase their free space by
.I percent
or more.  Volumes
not meeting the mingain parameter are not recycled.  
The default is 50%.
.TP
.BI "-recycle_vsncount " count
This option sets a limit of
.I count
on the number of volumes
the recycler will schedule for rearchiving so as to clear volumes of
useful data.  Note that the actual number of volumes selected for 
recycling may also be dependant on the -recycle_dataquantity parameter.
The default is 1.
This option is ignored for disk media recycling.
.TP
.BI "-recycle_minobs " percent
This option is used to set a threshold for the recycler's rearchiving process.
When the percentage of obsolete files within an archived tar file on the 
disk reaches
this threshold, the recycler begins moving the valid files from the archive
into a new tar file. Once all of the valid files have been moved,
the original tar file is marked as a
candidate to be removed from the disk archive.
This option is ignored for removable media recycling.
The default is 50%.
.TP
.BI "-unarchage " time_ref"
Set the Unarchive Age computation time reference for this archive set to
.IR time_ref .
The age of the files will be computed for unarchiving a copy from this time
reference.
For selecting the desired time reference,
.I time_ref
may be:
.br
.TP
.B access
The age of files for unarchiving a copy is computed from the access time of the
file.
.TP
.B modify
The age of files for unarchiving a copy is computed from the modification
time of the file.

The default
.I time_ref
is
.BR access .
.RE
.RE
.SS VSN POOL DEFINITIONS SECTION
Collections of volumes may be defined in this section.  The beginning
of the section is noted by the directive
.BR vsnpools .
The section is ended by the end of the archiver command file or the directive
.BR endvsnpools .
.LP 
A VSN pool definition requires at least three fields:  the pool name,
the media type, and at least one VSN.
.LP 
The media type is the two character mnemonic as described in the
.BR mcf (4)
man page.
The dk or cb identifiers can be used to define a disk archive set.
For more information on disk archiving, see
the \fISun StorEdge SAM Storage and Archive Management Guide\fR.
.LP 
VSNs are regular expressions as defined in
.BR regcmp (3C).
.SS VSN ASSOCIATIONS SECTION
VSN associations are defined after all archive sets are defined.  The beginning
of the section is noted by the directive
.BR vsns .
The section is ended by the end of the archiver command file or the directive
.BR endvsns .
.LP
A VSN association requires at least three fields:  the Archive Set Copy,
the media type, and at least one VSN.
.LP
The Archive Set Copy is the Archive Set name and copy number separated
by '.'.
.LP
VSN associations may be set for all archive sets by using the pseudo Archive
Set Copy
.B allsets
for the directive.  If the 
.B allsets
is specified without a copy number, the VSNs apply to all Archive Set
Copies.  If specified with a copy number, the VSNs apply to only those
Archive Set Copies with the same copy number.  All
.B allsets
directives must occur before those for any actual Archive Set Copies.
.LP
If an archive copy of a file is being rearchived, the Rearchive Set Copy
uses the VSN associations from the actual Archive Set Copy.
If desired, the VSN associations may be set using the Archive Set
Copy name followed by the character 'R'.  The Rearchive Set Copy allows
the users to differentiate 'new' and rearchive operations, and use different
VSNs for each operation.
.LP
.LP
The media type is the two character mnemonic as described in the
.BR mcf (4)
man page.
.LP
VSNs are regular expressions as defined in
.BR regcmp (3C).
or VSN pool denoted by the option name
.BI -pool " vsn_pool_name"
.LP
Each VSN on a vsns line is used without leading or trailing spaces as input
to
.BR regcmp (3C).
The compiled form is saved with the Archive Set Copy
definition.  When a volume is needed for an Archive Set Copy, each VSN of
each library or manual drive that has sufficient space and is allowed to
be used for archives, is used as the "subject" argument to
.BR regex (3C).
The archive set copy vsn expressions are used as the "re" argument to
.BR regex (3C).
If
.BR regex (3C)
returns with a successful match, the volume is used for the archive set copy.
.TP
Example:
.ft CO
set_name.3 mo optic.*
.ft
.LP
Assigns all files in
.I set_name.3
to the
.I mo
media with VSNs beginning with
.IR optic .
.LP
VSN associations may be defined for all archive sets by using the pseudo
Archive Set Copy
.B allsets
for the directive.  If the 
.B allsets
is specified without a copy number, the VSN associations apply to all Archive
Set Copies.  If specified with a copy number, the VSN associations apply to
only those Archive Set Copies with the same copy number.  All
.B allsets
directives must occur before those for any actual Archive Set Copies.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR release (1),
.BR stage (1).
.PP
.BR archiver (1M),
.BR archiver.sh (1M),
.BR sam-archiverd (1M),
.BR sam-arcopy (1M),
.BR sam-arfind (1M),
.BR sam-recycler (1M).
.PP
.BR regcmp (3C).
.PP
.BR diskvols.conf (4),
.BR mcf (4).
