'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.13 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH devlog 4 "07 Jan 2009"
.SH NAME
devlog \- Device log file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\%\fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/devlog/\fInn\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
In Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments, media or tape
hardware events that require operator intervention
(such as tape positioning errors and requests for cleaning)
are logged to file in the following directory:
.PP
\f(CO/var/opt/SUNWsamfs\fR
.PP
Within the preceding directory, events are logged to files
that are named for the devices listed in the \fBmcf\fR file.
For example, file \fBdevlog/47\fR logs all events for the
device identified by Equipment Number \fB47\fR in the \fBmcf\fR file.
.PP
After an event is logged, you can use the \fBtapealert\fR(1M)
command to read the event logged in the \fBdevlog/\fInn\fR file,
interpret the event, and write it to a text file for easier viewing.
For more information about the specific events logged to the
device log files, see the \fBtapealert\fR(1M) man page.
.PP
The \fBtapealert\fR(1M) command logs the following two types
of messages in the device log (\fBdevlog/\fInn\fR) file:
.TP 3
\(bu
Device TapeAlert support 
.TP
\(bu
Active TapeAlert flags
.PP
The preceding type of messages are the undecoded TapeAlert events.  The
\fBtapealert\fR(1M) command decodes these messages into a more
readable format.
The undecoded device log messages
for device support contains the
following information:
.TP 10
\fBField\fR
\fBContent\fR
.TP
1
The date in \fIyear\fB/\fImonth\fB/\fIday\fR format.
.TP
2
The time expressed in a \%24-hour clock.
.TP
3
The message number, followed by \fBTapeAlert\fR
and \fBsupported\fR.
TapeAlert messages start at 12000.
.PP
The following is an example of a device support message:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
2003/06/13 10:52:23 12001 TapeAlert supported
.fi
.ft
.PP
The device log messages for active TapeAlert flags contain
the following information:
.TP 10
\fBField\fR
\fBContent\fR
.TP
1
The date in \fIyear\fB/\fImonth\fB/\fIday\fR format.
.TP
2
The time expressed in a \%24-hour clock.
.TP
3
The message number, followed by \fBTapeAlert\fR.
TapeAlert messages start at 12000.
.TP
4
The characters \fBeq=\fR followed by
the mcf(4) equipment number. 
.TP
5
The characters \fBtype=\fR followed by
the inquiry  peripheral device type.
.TP
6
The characters \fBseq=\fR followed by
the \fBsysevent\fR sequence number.
The \fBsysevent\fR sequence number is zero if
the \fBsysevent_post_event\fR function fails
or is not called.
The \fBsysevent\fR event handler \fB$sequence\fR macro
is the same as the
\fBdevlog/\fInn\fR file's \fBseq=\fIn\fR number.
.TP
7
The characters \fBlen=\fR followed by the number of
valid TapeAlert flags.
.TP
8
The flags field.
The 64 TapeAlert flags are written in big endian format.
The most significant bit, on the left, is flag 64.
The least significant bit is flag 1.
.PP
The following is an example of a TapeAlert flags message:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf

2003/06/13 10:52:23 12006 TapeAlert eq=91 type=1 seq=8 len=50 flags=0x0002004000000000
.fi
.ft
.PP
A decoded TapeAlert flag consists of four parts:
.TP 4
1.
Flag
.TP
2.
Severity
.TP
3.
Application message
.TP
4.
Probable cause
.PP
The T10 Technical Committee
defines three types of flags.  Table 1 lists these flags
in order of increasing severity.
.PP
\fBTable 1.  Flag Types\fR
.PP
.TS
l c c c.
\fBSeverity	Urgent Intervention	Risk of Data Loss	Explanation\fR
Critical	X	X
Warning		X	X
Information			X
.TE
.PP
If an Information-level flag is issued, you can perceive it as a
predicted failure.  Take the time to correct the problem before it
worsens.
.PP
The \fBtapealert\fR(1M) command supports the minimum flag subset
as defined by the T10 Committee.  Table 2 shows these flags.
.PP
\fBTable 2.  Tape Drive TapeAlert Flags - Minimum Subset\fR
.TP 20
\fBFlag Number, Type\fR
\fBExplanation\fR
.TP
\fB3h\fR, Hard error
Active for any unrecoverable read/write/positioning
error.  Internally deactivated when the media is unloaded.
This flag is active as specified in flag number \fB5h\fR and
\fB6h\fR.
.TP
\fB4h\fR, Media
Active for any unrecoverable
read/write/positioning error that is due to
faulty media.  Internally deactivated
when the media is unloaded.
.TP
\fB5h\fR, Read failure
Active for any unrecoverable read error where
the diagnosis is uncertain and could either be
faulty media or faulty drive hardware.
Internally deactivated when the media is unloaded.
.TP
\fB6h\fR, Write failure
Active for any unrecoverable write/positioning
error where the diagnosis is uncertain and could
either be faulty media or faulty drive hardware.
Internally deactivated when the media is
unloaded.
.TP
\fB14h\fR, Clean now
Active when the tape drive detects a cleaning
cycle is needed.  Internally deactivated
when the tape drive is successfully cleaned.
.TP
\fB16h\fR, Expired cleaning
Active when the tape drive detects a cleaning
cycle was attempted but was not successful.
Internally deactivated when the next cleaning
cycle is attempted.
.TP
\fB1fh\fR, Hardware B
Active when the tape drive fails its internal
Power-On-Self-Tests (POST).
Not internally deactivated until the drive is
powered off.
.PP
Table 3 summarizes the errors in the \fBdevlog/\fInn\fR file.
.PP
\fBTable 3.
TapeAlert Flag Definition Groupings for
Tape Drives With or Without an Autoloader\fR
\fR
.TP 15
\fBFlag Number(s)\fR
\fBDefinition\fR
.TP
\fB01h\fR to \fB13h\fR
Tape drive write/read management
.TP
\fB14h\fR to \fB19h\fR
Cleaning management
.TP
\fB1Ah\fR to \fB27h\fR
Tape drive hardware errors
.TP
\fB28h\fR to \fB31h\fR
Tape autoloader errors
.TP
\fB32h\fR to \fB40h\fR
Further tape errors
.PP
The information in tables 1, 2, and 3 is derived from
\fISCSI Stream Commands \- 2 (SSC\-2)\fR, Revision 08d.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBtapealert\fR(1M).
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(4).

