.\" $Revision: 1.24 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH diskvols.conf 4 "07 Feb 2007"
.SH NAME
diskvols.conf \- Defines disk archive volumes for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS environments
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/diskvols.conf\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
A Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file can have one or more of its archive
copies written to a
disk archive resource.
A \fIdisk volume\fR that represents the resource
is stored in the inode of the archived file.
.PP
The disk volume configuration file, \fBdiskvols.conf\fR,
defines the mapping between a disk volume and
the corresponding resource.
The \fBsam-fsd\fR daemon reads the \fBdiskvols.conf\fR file
when the \fBsam\-fsd\fR daemon is started.  The \fBdiskvols.conf\fR file
can be changed at any time while the \fBsam\-fsd\fR daemon
is running.  The changes take effect when the \fBsam\-fsd\fR daemon
is restarted
or sent the signal SIGHUP.
.PP
The mappings are specified one per line.  Each line consists of two
fields separated by white space.  Leading white space is ignored.  Everything
after a pound character (\fB#\fR) is ignored.
Lines can be continued by using a backslash character (\fB\e\fR) as the
last character on the line.
The syntax for this line is as follows:
.PP
\fIdisk_volume resource\fR
.PP
where:
.TP 10
\fIdisk_volume\fR
An alphanumeric string.
The string can contain up to 31 characters.
.TP
\fIresource\fR
A resource specification in one of the following formats:
.RS 10
.TP 15
\fIpathname\fR
This format contains the path name of the disk archive directory on the local host.
.TP
[\fIhost\fB:\fR]\fIpathname\fR
This format specifies the \fIhost\fR as the name of the disk archive
server and \fIpathname\fR as the path
name of the disk archive directory on that host.
.TP
stk5800 \fIhost[\fB:\fR\fIport\fR]
This format defines a disk volume as residing on a Sun StorageTek 5800
Storage System.
The \fIhost\fR field contains the name or IP address
and \fIport\fR as the port number of the Sun StorageTek 5800 Storage System.
By default, the port number is 8080.
.RE
.PP
NOTE: Extreme care must be taken when configuring disk archiving in an environment with
multiple SAM-QFS servers. The diskvols.conf file for each SAM-QFS server must point to a unique
set of disk volume resource specifications (disk archiving target directories). If any 
of these are shared between different SAM-QFS servers, then running the recycler from one
SAM-QFS server will destroy the disk archive data that is being managed by the other
SAM-QFS server.
.SH CLIENT DEFINITIONS SECTION
The \fBclients\fR and \fBendclients\fR directives delimit this
section of the \fBdiskvols.conf\fR file.
.PP
The client definitions section defines the trusted client systems.
After the disk archiving server accepts a client connection,
it verifies that the socket address belongs to a host in the
trusted client definitions section.  If not,
the connection is refused.
.SH EXAMPLES
This example shows two \fBdiskvols.conf\fR files.
.PP
File 1 is a \fBdiskvols.conf\fR file on client system earth
that defines the following:
.TP 3
\(bu
There is one volume serial name (VSN) for a local disk archive.
.TP
\(bu
There are two remote VSNs.  Remote
VSN \fBremote1\fR resides in \fB/quidditch\fR on the remote
server \fBgryffindor\fR, and remote VSN \fBremote2\fR resides
in \fB/quidditch\fR on remote server \fBravenclaw\fR.
.TP
\(bu
There is one volume serial name (VSN) for a Sun StorageTek 5800 Storage System.
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
#
# This is file /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/diskvols.conf on local system earth
#
local_archive       /DiskArchive
remote1  gryffindor:/quidditch
remote2   ravenclaw:/quidditch
stk_archive  stk5800 mars
.fi
.ft
.PP
File 2 is the \fBdiskvols.conf\fR file that resides on
the server system \fBgryffindor\fR and \fBravenclaw\fR.
Only the \fBdiskvols.conf\fR file for
server \fBgryffindor\fR is shown.
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
#
# This is file /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/diskvols.conf on server system gryffindor
#
clients
earth
endclients
.fi
.ft
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBarchiver\fR(1M),
\fBsam-fsd\fR(1M).
.PP
\fBarchiver.cmd\fR(4).
.SH WARNINGS
If more than one SAM-FS environment is sharing a Sun StorageTek 5800 Storage
System you must take extra care when configuring the diskvols.conf file.
If you are running multiple connections to a Sun StorageTek 5800 Storage
System disk archive, then the
\fIdisk_volume\fR
name needs to be unique across all SAM-FS environments.
For example, stk_archive_earth on one server, stk_archive_pluto on the next server, etc.
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
#
# This is file /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/diskvols.conf on server earth
#
stk_archive_earth  stk5800 mars
.PP

#
# This is file /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/diskvols.conf on server pluto
#
stk_archive_pluto  stk5800 mars
.fi
.ft
.PP
It is important to follow this recommendation, because there is no enforcement of
this restriction in the SAM-FS software.
