.\" $Revision: 1.3 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH fsalogd.cmd 4 "04 June 2008"
.SH NAME
fsalogd.cmd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS fsalogd command file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/fsalogd.cmd\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
Directives for controlling the file system activity log daemon (sam-fsalogd)
can be read from the
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/fsalogd.cmd\fR file.
The directives must appear one per line.
.PP
Comment lines are permitted.  Comment lines must begin with a
pound character (\fB#\fR), and the comment can extend through the
rest of the line.
.PP
Directives that appear prior to any \fBfs=\fR directive
are applied to all file systems.
Directives that appear after a \fBfs=\fR directive are applied
to the specified file system only.
Directives that are specific to a file system override general
directives.
.PP
The following directives control the operation of the fsalogd daemon.
.RE
.SH DIRECTIVES
The following miscellaneous directives can be specified in
the \fBfsalogd.cmd\fR file:
.TP
.B "log_path = " \fIn\fR
Specifies the path of the log file directory.  The default is
/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/fsalogd/\fIfamily_set_name\fR.  Log files are created 
with the name \fIfamilyset.YYYYMMDDhhmm.log\fR.
.TP
.B "fs = " \fIfile_system_family_set_name\fR
Specifies that the subsequent directives apply to the
indicated \fIfile_system_family_set_name\fR only.
.TP
.B "log_rollover_interval = " \fIn\fR
Sets the log file rollover interval time to \fIn\fR seconds. When the
interval time since the creation of the log file has elapsed a new log file
will be created.  The default is 28800 seconds (8 hours).
.TP
.B "log_expire = " \fIn\fR
Sets the log file expiration time to \fIn\fR seconds. When the
time since the creation of the log file has exceeded log_expire,
the log file is eligible for deletion.  The default is 172800
seconds (48 hours).  Expired log files are checked every 
log rollover interval.
.TP
.B "event_interval = " \fIn\fR
Sets the event interval time used by SAM-FS to call out to sam-fsalogd with
accumulated events.  The default time is 10 seconds.
.TP
.B "event_buffer_size = " \fIn\fR
Sets the buffer size in events.  The default buffer size is 256K which is
about 8,000 events.
.TP
.B "event_open_retry = " \fIn\fR
Sets the number of allowable retries when sam-fsalogd is establishing its
connection with the file system.  The default retry count is 5.
.TP
Example 1.  This
example file sets the \fBevent_interval\fR and \fBlog_path\fR directive for
the \fBsamfs1\fR file system.
.ft CO
.nf

          fs = samfs1
          event_interval = 10
          log_path = /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/fsalogd/samfs1

.fi
.ft
Example 2.  This example specifies the \fIlog_path\fR
for each file system.
.ft CO
.nf

          event_interval = 10

          fs = samfs1
          log_path = /var/adm/fsalog/samfs1

          fs = samfs2
          log_path = /var/adm/fsalog/samfs2

.fi
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsam-fsalogd\fR(1),
