.\" $Revision: 1.18 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH ibm3584 4 "03 Dec 2001"
.SH NAME
ibm3584 \- Describes using the IBM 3584 UltraScalable Tape Library with Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS software
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The IBM 3584 UltraScalable tape library can be used by Sun
StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS software with
few modifications to its typical operations.  This man page describes the
steps you need to take to use this library effectively.
The following topics are described:
.PP
.TP 2
\(bu
Cleaning
.TP
\(bu
Using the IBM 3584 tape library's partitioning feature
.SH CLEANING
The IBM 3584 UltraScalable Tape Library can be used in a Sun
StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
environment, but you need to disable automatic cleaning and enable hosted
cleaning.  No
other modifications need to be made to this library's default
configuration.
.PP
Host cleaning enables the host to detect the need to clean an Ultrium Tape Drive
and to control the cleaning process.  Host cleaning with a cleaning cartridge is
only supported when you disable automatic cleaning and only for the logical
library in which each cleaning cartridge is stored.  When you enable automatic
cleaning, or when the cleaning cartridge is stored in a different logical
library, the host application does not have access to the cleaning cartridge.
.PP
When automatic cleaning is disabled, the library continues to detect the need
to clean a tape drive.  When the need is detected, the library displays the
physical location of the drive in the following message:
.PP
.RS 10
\fBCLEAN [Fx,Rzz]\fR
.RE
.PP
The preceding message is interpreted as follows:
.TP 2
\(bu
\fBF\fR represents the frame, and \fBx\fR represents its number
.TP
\(bu
\fBR\fR represents the row, and \fBxx\fR represents its number
.PP
The message clears after you clean the drive by using the supported cleaning
method.  The cleaning cycle takes less than 2 minutes.
.PP
When you enable or disable automatic cleaning, the selected setting is
stored in nonvolatile memory and becomes the default during later power-on
cycles.
.PP
To disable automatic cleaning, perform the following steps:
.TP 3
1.
Ensure that a cleaning cartridge is loaded in the library.
.TP
2.
From the library's activity screen, press \fBMENU\fR.  The main menu displays, as
follows:
.PP
.RS 3
.nf
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Main Menu           Panel 0002

Library Status
Manual Operations
Settings
Usage Statistics
Vital Product Data
Service

[BACK]  [UP]  [DOWN]  [ENTER]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
.fi
.RE
.TP 3
3.
Press \fBUP\fR and \fBDOWN\fR to highlight Settings.
Press \fBENTER\fR.
The \fBSettings\fR menu displays, as follows:
.RS 3
.nf
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Settings             Panel 0100

Configuration
Cleaning Mode
Display/Change SCSI IDs
Add/Remove Control Paths
Date/Time
Sounds

[BACK]  [UP]  [DOWN]  [ENTER]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
.fi
.RE
.TP 3
4.
Press \fBUP\fR or \fBDOWN\fR to highlight \fBCleaning Mode\fR.
Press \fBENTER\fR.  The \fBCleaning Mode\fR
screen displays and indicates whether automatic cleaning is currently enabled
or disabled.
.RS 3
.nf
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cleaning Mode        Panel 0110

Automatic Cleaning is ENABLED
Disable Automatic Cleaning

[BACK]  [ENTER]
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
.RE
.fi
.TP 3
5.
The \fBENTER\fR key acts as a toggle switch for the two choices.
Press \fBENTER\fR until \fBDisable Automatic Cleaning\fR is highlighted.
You should receive the following message:
.RS 3
.PP
\fBIf you continue you will set the Automatic Cleaning Mode to DISABLED.
If you disable automatic cleaning you should ensure that each
logical library has at least one cleaning cartridge since host-initiated
cleaning can not use a cleaning cartridge located in a different logical
library.  Do you want to continue?\fR
.RE
.TP 3
6.
Press \fBYES\fR to disable automatic cleaning.
The \fBCleaning Mode\fR screen redisplays with the new setting.
.TP
7.
Press \fBBACK\fR until you return to the \fBActivity\fR screen from step 1.
.SH PARTITIONING
If your IBM 3584 tape library contains 2 or more drives, it can be partitioned
into 2 or more logical libraries.  If you have partitioned this library,
make sure that it is operating as you configured it prior to installing any
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS software.  For
more information on partitioning this library, see
your IBM
documentation.  This subsection describes aspects of using the partitioning
feature with the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS software.
.PP
When a cartridge is exported (as opposed to being placed in the drawer by a
human), only the partition from which it
was exported can access that drawer slot.  If the cartridge is removed and
re-inserted by a human, it is accessable to any/all partitions.
The act of removal referred to in this subsection consists of the following steps:
.TP 3
1.
Open door.
.TP
2.
Remove cartridge(s).
.TP
3.
Close door.
.TP
4.
Wait for door to lock and then unlock.
.TP
5.
Open door.
.TP
6.
Replace cartridge(s).
.TP
7.
Close door.
.SH NOTES
Much of the text on this man page was derived from the \fIIBM 3584 UltraScalable
Tape Library Planning and Operator Guide\fR, IBM publication GA32-0408-01,
copyright IBM Corporation 2000.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIIBM 3584 UltraScalable
Tape Library Planning and Operator Guide\fR, IBM publication GA32-0408-01.
.PP
\fBhttp://www.ibm.com/storage/hardsoft/tape/lto/3584
