.\" $Revision: 1.24 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH ibm3494 4 "02 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
ibm3494 \- The IBM3494 interface through lmcpd
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBibm3494\fR is the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS
interface to the
IBM 3494 library.
This interface utilizes the \fBlmcpd\fR interface supplied by IBM.
For more information on configuration and interfacing the IBM libraries, see
the documentation supplied with the IBM hardware and for
\fBlmcpd\fR.
.SH CONFIGURATION
It is assumed that the site has the \fBlmcpd\fR daemon
configured and operating with the 3494 library.
.LP
The "equipment identifier" field in the \fBmcf\fR file, (see \fBmcf\fR(4)),
is the full path name to a parameters file used by \fBibm3494\fR.  This file
consists of \fIkeyword\fR = \fIvalue\fR and \fIpath_name\fR = \fIvalue\fR pairs.
All keyword/path_name/values are case-sensitive.
.LP
The keywords are:
.TP 8
.B name
This is the name assigned by the system administrator and configured
in the \fB/etc/ibmatl.conf\fR file and the symbolic name of the library.
This parameter must be supplied, there is no default.
.TP
.B category
The category is a hex number between 0x0001 and 0xfeff.
Media controlled by Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
will have its category
set to this value.  The default for category is 4.
.TP
.B access
Access to the library may be \fBshared\fR or \fBprivate\fR.
If \fBprivate\fR, then
any media imported into the library (category = 0xff00) will be added
to the catalog and its category will be changed to that specified by
\fBcategory\fR above.  If \fBshared\fR, then the \fBimport\fR command
(see \fBimport\fR(1M)) will have to be used to add media to the catalog.
The default for access is \fBprivate\fR.
.TP
.I device_path_name
There is one \fIdevice_path_name\fR entry
for every drive in the library attached to this machine.
This name must match the Equipment Identifier of an
entry in the \fBmcf\fR file.
Following the \fIdevice_path_name\fR is the "device number" as described
in the IBM documentation.  The system administrator can determine this
number by running the IBM supplied utility \fBmtlib\fR.
Following the \fIdevice number\fR is the \fIshared\fR parameter. This 
parameter is optional and is used to indicate the drive is shared 
with other Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS servers. 
See examples below.
.LP
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
.RE
The example uses the following file
and information obtained from the IBM
supplied utility mtlib. Both are documented in the
materials supplied by IBM.
.LP
.RE
.ft CO
.nf
#
# This is file: /etc/ibmatl.conf
# Set this file up according the documentation supplied by IBM.
3493a   198.174.196.50  test1
.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
After \fBlmcpd\fR is running, run \fBmtlib\fR to get the device numbers.
.LP
.RS
.ft CO
.nf
mtlib -l 3493a -D
  0, 00145340 003590B1A00
  1, 00145350 003590B1A01
.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
Here is a sample parameters file and \fBmcf\fR entries 
for a IBM 3494 library.
.LP
.RS
.ft CO
.nf
#
# This is parameters file /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/ibm60.
#
name = 3493a                     # From /etc/ibmatl.conf
/dev/rmt/1bn = 00145340          # From mtlib output
/dev/rmt/2bn = 00145350 shared   # From mtlib output
access=private
category = 5

# These are the mcf file entries.
#
# IBM 3494 library
#
/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/ibm60 60   im   ibm3494e - ibmcat
/dev/rmt/1bn             61   tp   ibm3494e        
/dev/rmt/2bn             62   tp   ibm3494e
.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
.SH IMPORT/EXPORT
Import media
into the library by placing the new media into the I/O slots and
closing the door.  The library will lock the door and move the media
into the storage area. Only 100 volumes can be imported at one time.
If you are running with \fBaccess=private\fR, the library
will inform the daemon as the media is moved and the media will be 
added to the catalog.  If running with \fBaccess=shared\fR, then an 
\fBimport\fR
(see \fBimport\fR(1M))
command will need to be executed to add the media to the catalog.
.LP
Exporting media (in all modes) is performed by the
\fBexport\fR (see 
\fBexport\fR(1M)) command.  This command will move the media to the
I/O area and the output mode light on the operator panel will light.
The operator can then remove the media from the I/O area.
.SH CATALOG
If running with \fBaccess=shared\fR then a catalog will need to be built
before starting Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS.
There are two utilities used to maintain the library catalog.
\fBbuild_cat\fR (see \fBbuild_cat\fR(1M)) is used to build the
catalog.  \fBdump_cat\fR (see \fBdump_cat\fR(1M)) and \fBbuild_cat\fR
together are used to change the size of the catalog. 
.LP
To initialize a catalog with 1000 slots run:
.LP
.RS
build_cat /tmp/catalog_file < /dev/null
.RE
.LP
then move \fB/tmp/catalog_file\fR to the path pointed to in the \fBmcf\fR
file for this library.  (In this case /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/ibmcat).
Use \fBimport\fR to populate the catalog with the volumes.
Or, you can create a file with the list of volumes and supply 
it as input to \fBbuild_cat\fR (see \fBbuild_cat\fR(1M) for the format
of the input file).
.LP
If the size of the catalog needs to be increased, execute something
like:
.LP
.RS
dump_cat file1 | build_cat -s 2000 /tmp/file2
.RE
.LP
This would create a new catalog file (\fB/tmp/file2\fR) with room for 2000
entries and initialize it with the entries from file1.  This can
only be done when the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
software is not running
and \fBsam-amld\fR has
been shutdown (see \fBsam-amld\fR(1M)).
.SH FILES
.TP 30
.B mcf
The configuration file for the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and
Sun \%SAM-QFS software.
.TP
.B /etc/ibmatl.conf
Configuration file used by \fBlcmpd\fR.
.TP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/lib/libibmlmcp.so
A shared object version of the runtime library supplied by IBM
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR build_cat (8),
.BR dump_cat (8),
.BR export (8),
.BR import (8),
.BR sam-robotsd (8).
.PP
.BR mcf (5).
