'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.92 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH mcf 4 "07 May 2008"
.SH NAME
mcf \- Master configuration file for Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS software
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBmcf\fR file defines the devices and family sets used by
Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS software.
The \fBmcf\fR file is read when \fBsam\-fsd\fR
is started.  You can change it at any time while \fBsam\-fsd\fR
is running.  The changes take effect when \fBsam\-fsd\fR is restarted,
or sent the signal SIGHUP.
.PP
The following examples show
an \fBmcf\fR file for a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS environment and an \fBmcf\fR
file for a Sun StorEdge QFS file system.
.PP
Example 1.  The following is an example of a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS \fBmcf\fR file:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
#
# Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS file system configuration example
#
# Equipment       Eq Eq Family Dev Additional
# Identifier      Or Tp Set    St  Parameters
# --------------- -- -- ------ --- ----------
samfs1            10 ms samfs1
/dev/dsk/c1t0d0s6 11 md samfs1 -
/dev/dsk/c2t0d0s6 12 md samfs1 -
#
samfs2                           20 ms samfs2 - shared
/dev/dsk/c2t50020F2300000C98d0s5 21 md samfs2 -
/dev/dsk/c2t50020F2300004921d0s5 22 md samfs2 -
#
/dev/samst/c3t500104F0008E6C2Cu0 30 rb SL500 on SL500
/dev/rmt/2bn                     31 tp SL500 on
/dev/rmt/3bn                     32 tp SL500 on
#
/dev/rmt/0cbn     40 tp -      on
#
/dev/samst/c1t3u1 50 rb ml50   on   /usr/tmp/ml50_cat
/dev/rmt/2cbn     51 tp ml50   on
#
.ft
.fi
.PP
Example 2.  The following is an example of a QFS \fBmcf\fR file:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
#
# Sun StorEdge QFS file system configuration example
#
# Equipment        Eq Eq Family Dev Additional
# Identifier       Or Tp Set    St  Parameters
# ---------------- -- -- ------ --- ----------
#
qfs1               10 ma qfs1
/dev/dsk/c1t1d0s3  11 mm qfs1   -
/dev/dsk/c2t1d0s3  12 mm qfs1   -
/dev/dsk/c3t1d0s3  13 md qfs1   -
/dev/dsk/c4t1d0s3  14 md qfs1   -
#
qfs2                             20 ma qfs2
/dev/dsk/c1t50020F2300000C98d0s0 21 mm qfs2  -
/dev/dsk/c1t50020F2300004921d0s0 22 mm qfs2 -
/dev/dsk/c2t50020F2300004655d0s1 23 g0 qfs2 -
/dev/dsk/c3t50020F230000651Cd0s1 24 g0 qfs2 -
/dev/dsk/c2t50020F2300004655d0s2 25 g1 qfs2 -
/dev/dsk/c3t50020F230000651Cd0s2 26 g1 qfs2 -
#
qfs3                             30 ma qfs3 - shared
/dev/dsk/c2t50020F2300000C98d0s2 31 mm qfs3 -
/dev/dsk/c2t50020F2300004921d0s2 32 mm qfs3 -
/dev/dsk/c2t50020F2300000C98d0s3 33 mr qfs3 -
/dev/dsk/c2t50020F2300004921d0s3 34 mr qfs3 -
#
qfs4                                              40 mb qfs4 - shared
/dev/dsk/c2t50020F2300000C98d0s4                  41 mm qfs4 -
/dev/osd/osd0100080020E1381F00002A00479F7D98,root 42 o1 qfs4 -
/dev/osd/osd010000144F94A14C00002A00479F4EB4,root 43 o1 qfs4 -
#
.ft
.fi
.PP
As the preceding examples show, each line in the \fBmcf\fR
file is divided into six fields.
The format of the fields in the \fBmcf\fR file is as follows:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
Equipment  Equipment  Equipment  Family  Device  Additional
Identifier Ordinal    Type       Set     State   Parameters
.ft
.fi
.PP
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR, \fBEquipment Ordinal\fR,
and \fBEquipment Type\fR fields are required for each entry.
The \fBmcf\fR file can contain comments.  Each comment line must begin
with a pound character (\fB#\fR).
Blank lines are ignored.
The fields in the file must be separated by white space.  A dash
character (\fB\-\fR) can be used to indicate a field with no entry.
.PP
This man page describes the content of a Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun
StorEdge \%SAM-FS, or Sun \%SAM-QFS \fBmcf\fR file.
For more configuration information,
see the \fISun StorEdge QFS and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
File System Administrator's Guide\fR.
After your Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
software is installed, you can see more
examples of \fBmcf\fR files in the following directory:
.PP
.ft CO
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples\fR
.ft
.SH mcf File Fields
This section defines the fields in the \fBmcf\fR file.
Note that Sun StorEdge QFS environments do not
include removable media devices in their \fBmcf\fR files.
.PP
When writing the \fBmcf\fR file, group together the lines that define
similar devices.
For example, create this file such that the devices for a file
system appear on consecutive lines and devices for a library appear
in a separate set of consecutive lines.
.TP 2
\(bu
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR
specifies a file system and its disk devices or it specifies the
devices associated with an automated library.
.RS 4
.TP 3
-
For file system definition lines, this field can contain
two types of entries.
The first line in a file system definition
must contain the file system name in the \fBEquipment Identifier\fR
field, and it must be no longer than 31 characters in length.
The file system name specified
must be identical to the content of the \fBFamily Set\fR field.
For example:
.sp
.nf
.ft CO
Equipment    Equipment  Equipment  Family  Device  Addl
Identifier   Ordinal    Type       Set     State   Params
----------   -------    ---------  ------  ------  ------
samqfs1      1          ms         samqfs1 -       -
.fi
.ft
.sp
\fRSubsequent lines in the \fBmcf\fR file define disk devices
to be included in the file system.  The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR
fields in these lines can be no longer than 127 characters in length.
.TP
-
For automated library definition lines,
the \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field contains
drive identifier information and can be
no longer than 127 characters in length.
For example:
.sp
.nf
.ft CO
Equipment     Equipment  Equipment  Family  Device  Addl
Identifier    Ordinal    Type       Set     State   Params
----------    -------    ---------  ------  ------  ------
/dev/rmt/0cbn 61         tp         9730    on      -
.fi
.ft
.sp
.RE
.TP
\(bu
The \fBEquipment Ordinal\fR field contains a unique number
for each disk or removable media device configured.
The number you specify must be in the following range:
.sp
1 \(<= \fIEquipment_Ordinal\fR \(<= 65534
.sp
Sun Microsystems recommends that you use low numbers
in order to keep the internal software tables small.
.TP
\(bu
The \fBEquipment Type\fR field contains a \%2-character
code that specifies the device being defined as either
a disk in a file system or as a removable media device.
This man page includes information on appropriate codes.
.TP 2
\(bu
The \fBFamily Set\fR name is an arbitrary name that you select
when the \fBmcf\fR is created.
This field can be no longer than 31 characters in length.
The \fBFamily Set\fR name defines and associates related
groups of devices.
This can be either a file system name, an automated library
identifier, or a dash character (-), as follows:
.RS 4
.TP 3
-
If it is a file system name, all disk devices in the file system must
use the same file system name in this field.
.TP 
-
If it is an automated library identifier, the library and all its
associated drive devices must use the same identifier.
.TP
-
If it is a standalone removable media device, use a dash (-)
character in this field.
.RE
.TP 2
\(bu
The \fBDevice State\fR field defines the default status
for the device at the time the system reads the mcf file.
Valid values
are as follows:  \fBon\fR (default), \fBoff\fR, \fBunavail\fR,
or \fBdown\fR.  This field is used for disk devices, libraries,
drives, and other devices.
.TP
\(bu
The \fBAdditional Parameters\fR field provides additional information.
It can contain the path to a
library catalog file, an interface file, or other configuration
information.  The \fBAdditional Parameters\fR field can be no
longer than 127 characters.  For example, this field can be
used to specify a nondefault location for the library catalog
file. If mcf file is being configured on a SunCluster node running
HA-SAM, this field must specify the library catalog file in
default location. In HA-SAM configuration /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog
is linked to cluster filesystem which is shared among all nodes
within the SunCluster.
.SH File System Disks
When defining a disk cache family
set, the following entries differentiate a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS file
system from a Sun StorEdge QFS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system:
.TP 5
\fBms\fR
A Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS disk cache family set. There are no meta devices.
Metadata resides on the data device(s).
.TP
\fBma\fR
A Sun StorEdge QFS or Sun \%SAM-QFS disk cache family set with one or more
meta devices.
Metadata resides on these meta devices.
File data resides on the data device(s).
.TP
\fBmb\fR
A Sun StorEdge QFS or Sun \%SAM-QFS disk cache family set with one or more
meta devices.
Metadata resides on these meta devices.
File data resides on the object storage device(s) (OSDs).
.TP
\fBmat\fR
A Sun StorEdge QFS disk cache family set with one or more
meta devices.  Metadata resides on these meta devices.
File data resides on the data device(s). This standalone file system
has no namespace and is only used as the OSD target backing store of an
object storage device (OSD) in an \fBmb\fP file system.
.PP
A maximum of 252 separate magnetic disk devices can be defined for each
\fBms\fP, \fBma\fP, \fBmb\fP, or \fBmat\fP disk cache family set.
.PP
The \fBFamily Set\fR field is required for file system disks.
It is used to define the magnetic disks that make up the family set.
For a magnetic disk device, the \fBFamily Set\fR field entry must match
a \fBFamily Set\fR defined on an \fBms\fR, \fBma\fP, \fBmb\fR, or \fBmat\fR
entry.
.PP
The keyword \fBshared\fR must be specified in the \fBAdditional
Parameters\fR field if the file system is a shared file system.
A \fBshared\fR file system is built by using the \%\fB\-S\fR
option to the \fBsammkfs\fR(1M) command. The \fBshared\fR option
is not supported for an \fBmat\fR file system.
For more information on this option, see the \fBsammkfs\fR(1M) man page.
.PP
For each disk device, the \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field
is the path to a special file, such
as \fB/dev/dsk/c\fIn\fBt\fIn\fBd\fIn\fBs\fIn\fR.
If the meta devices are not present on the clients
in a shared file system, the keyword \fBnodev\fR must be specified
in the \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field for the mm devices.
.PP
The following equipment types are used to define the disk devices that
reside within an \fBms\fR, \fBma\fR, \fBmb\fR, or \fBmat\fR file system:
.TP 7
\fBmm\fR
A magnetic disk that is part of an
\fBma\fR, \fBmb\fR, or \fBmat\fR disk cache family set.
Metadata is allocated on this device.
At least one \fBmm\fR device is required in an
\fBma\fR, \fBmb\fR, or \fBmat\fR file system.
.TP
\fBmd\fR
A magnetic disk that is part of an
\fBms\fR, \fBma\fR, or \fBmat\fR disk cache family set.
This device stores file data allocated in small Disk Allocation
Units (DAUs) of 4 kilobytes and large DAUs of 16, 32, or 64 kilobytes.
The default is 64 kilobytes.
In an \fBms\fR family set, this device stores both metadata and file data.
In an \fBma\fR or \fBmat\fR family set, this device stores only file data.
.TP
\fBmr\fR
A magnetic disk that is part of an
\fBma\fR or \fBmat\fP disk cache family set.
This device stores file data allocated in large Disk Allocation
Units (DAUs) that are a multiple of 8 kilobytes in a fully adjustable
range from 8 to 65528 kilobytes.  The default is 64 kilobytes.
At least one \fBmr\fR device is required in an
\fBma\fR or \fBmat\fR file system.
.TP
\fBg\fIXXX\fR
A magnetic disk that is part of an
\fBma\fR or \fBmat\fP disk cache family set.
The \fIXXX\fR identifies a striped group of devices.
This device stores file data allocated in a large DAU
size multiplied by the number of members in the striped group.
The DAU size is a multiple of 8 kilobytes in a fully adjustable
range from 8 to 65528 kilobytes.  The default is 256 kilobytes.
The \fIXXX\fR must be a decimal number in the
range \fB0\fR \(<= \fIXXX\fR \(<= \fB127\fR.
These devices
must be the same physical size.
.sp
It is not possible to use the \fBsamgrowfs\fR(1M) command
to increase the size of a striped group.
However, it is possible to add additional striped groups.
.TP
\fBo\fIXXX\fR
An object-based storage device that is part of an
\fBmb\fR disk cache family set.
These devices store file data.
The \fIXXX\fR identifies a group of "like" devices that are
used for a stripe. Note, a file will be optionally striped
across members in the \fBo\fIXXX\fR OSD group. There is no striping
across different groups of OSD devices.
The \fIXXX\fR must be a decimal number in the
range \fB0\fR \(<= \fIXXX\fR \(<= \fB127\fR.
These devices are recommended to be the same type of block devices.
For example, one group could be FC and another group could be SATA.
At least one \fBo\fIXXX\fR device is required in an
\fBmb\fR file system.
.PP
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR is used during the \fBmount\fR(1M)
process as the \fBDevice To Mount\fR.  The \fBDevice To Mount\fR
is the first field in \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file for the mount point.  For
more information on this, see the \fBmount\fR(1M),
\fBmount_samfs\fR(1M), or \fBvfstab\fR(1M) man pages.
.SH \%SCSI-attached Libraries
Several identifiers can be used to define \%SCSI-attached
libraries in the \fBmcf\fR file.
For each \%SCSI-attached library,
the \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field must contain the path
(such as \fB/dev/samst/c\fIn\fBt\fIn\fBu\fIn\fR)
to the special file for the device created by the \fBsamst\fR
device driver.
For more information on the device driver, see the \fBsamst\fR(7)
man page.
.PP
The \fBFamily Set\fR field
is required.  It is used to associate the library controller with
the drives in the library.
All devices associated
with the library must have the same \fBFamily Set\fR name.
.PP
The \fBAdditional Parameters\fR field is optional.  This
field can be used to specify a nondefault location for the library catalog file.
By default, catalogs are written
to \fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/\fIfamily_set_name\fR.
This file is used to store information
about each piece of media in the library.
In HA-SAM configuration, this field must specify the library catalog
file in default location and /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog is linked to
cluster filesystem which is shared among all nodes within the SunCluster.
.PP
The following \fBEquipment Type\fR field entries can be used to
define manually mounted or automated libraries that are attached
through a SCSI interface:
.PP
.nf
\fBEquipment Type\fR
.fi
.PD 0
.TP 15
\fBField Content\fR
\fBDefinition\fR
.PD
.TP
\fBrb\fR
Generic SCSI library that is automatically configured by
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS software.
.sp
\fBNOTE:\fR  An \fBrb\fR definition is preferred for all
\%SCSI-attached libraries.  The remainder of the library
definitions in this list are supported but are not recommended
for use in an \fBmcf\fR file.
If a library in this list is defined in the \fBmcf\fR file
as \fBrb\fR, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS set the appropriate type
based on the SCSI vendor code.
.TP
\fBad\fR
ADIC Scalar 448 libraries.
.TP
\fBae\fR
ADIC Scalar 100 libraries.
.TP
\fBal\fR
Sun StorEdge L25 and L100 and ATL M1500 and M2500 libraries.
.TP
\fBas\fR
ADIC Scalar 1000 and Scalar 10K libraries.
.TP
\fBq8\fR
Qualstar 42xx, 62xx, 82xx, TLS and RLS series libraries
.TP
\fBov\fR
Overland Data Inc. Neo Series Tape Libraries.
.TP
\fBac\fR
ATL Products 4/52, 2640, 7100, and \%P-series tape libraries, and
Sun 1800, 3500, L1000 and L11000 tape libraries.
.TP
\fBcy\fR
Cygnet optical disk libraries.
.TP
\fBds\fR
DocuStore and Plasmon optical disk libraries.
.TP
\fBeb\fR
Exabyte 210, Sun L280, and ATL Products \%L-series tape libraries.
.TP
\fBe8\fR
Exabyte X80 libraries.
.TP
\fBhc\fR
HP L9/L20/L60 series
.TP
\fBh4\fR
HP SL48 and SL24 libraries.
.TP
\fBhp\fR
Hewlett Packard optical disk libraries.
.TP
\fBic\fR
IBM 3570 media changer.
.TP
\fBme\fR
Metrum and Mountain Gate libraries.
.TP
\fBnm\fR
Fujitsu LT250 and LT270 libraries.
.TP
\fBpd\fR
Plasmon \%D-Series \%DVD-RAM libraries.
.TP
\fBpg\fR
Plasmon \%G-Series \%UDO/MO libraries.
The library must be configured to G-Enterprise mode, element address scheme 1 and barcode type 2 or 3 by using the front panel.
.TP
\fBml\fR
Quantum DLTx700 tape libraries.
.TP
\fBdm\fR
Sony DMF and DMS libraries.
.TP
\fBcs\fR
Sony CSM-20S Tape Library.
.TP
\fBsl\fR
Spectra Logic and Qualstar tape libraries.
.TP
\fBs3\fR
Sun StorageTek SL3000 library series.
.TP
\fBs9\fR
StorageTek 97xx series libraries.
.TP
\fBsn\fR
StorageTek L20, L40, L80, and L500 tape libraries and Sun StorEdge L7 and
L8 autoloaders.
.TP
\fBc4\fR
Quantum PX500 and Sun StorEdge C4 libraries. These libraries are supported
in native mode (PX500) only. SAM-QFS does not support these libraries in
M1500 emulation mode.
.TP
\fBil\fR
IBM 3584 tape libraries.
.SH \%Network-attached Libraries
This subsection describes how to define a \%network-attached
library in your \fBmcf\fR file.
.PP
For each \%Network-attached library,
the \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field must contain the path
to the "parameters file" for the device.
.PP
The \fBFamily Set\fR field is required.  It is used
to associate devices with the library.
All devices associated
with the library must have the same \fBFamily Set\fR name.
.PP
The \fBAdditional Parameters\fR field is optional.  This
field can be used to specify a nondefault location for the library catalog file.
By default, catalogs are written
to \fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/\fIfamily_set_name\fR.
This file is used to store information
about each piece of media in the library.
In HA-SAM configuration, this field must specify the library catalog
file in default location and /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog is linked to
cluster filesystem which is shared among all nodes within the SunCluster.
.PP
The \%network-attached library definitions are as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fBEquipment Type\fR
.fi
.PD 0
.TP 15
\fBField Content\fR
\fBDefinition\fR
.PD
.TP
.B gr
ADIC/GRAU Network-attached library.
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field must
contain the path to the parameters file
for the \fBgrauaci\fR interface.
For more information, see the \fBgrauaci\fR(7) man page.
.TP
.B im
IBM 3494 interface.
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field must contain the
path to the parameters file for the \fBibm3494\fR interface.
For more information, see the \fBibm3494\fR(7) man page. 
.TP
.B pe
Sony \%network-attached interface.
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field must contain the
path to the parameters file for the \fBsony\fR interface.
For more information, see the \fBsony\fR(7) man page. 
.TP
.B sk
StorageTek ACSLS interface.
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field must contain the
path to the parameters file for the ACSLS interface.
For more information, see the \fBstk\fR(7) man page. 
.SH The Historian
The \fBhy\fR identifier in the \fBEquipment Type\fR field
identifies the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS historian.
.PP
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field must contain the
string \fBhistorian\fR.
.PP
The \fBFamily Set\fR must contain a dash character (\fB\-\fR).
.PP
The \fBAdditional Parameters\fR field is optional.  This
field can be used to specify a nondefault location for the historian.
By default, the historian is written
to \fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/historian\fR.
This file is used to store information
about the media handled by the \fBhistorian\fR.
For more information, see the \fBhistorian\fR(7) man page.
.SH Optical Disk Drives 
This subsection describes the optical disk drive devices
supported by Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS.
.sp
\fBNOTE\fR that optical disk drive devices are not supported on x64 platforms.
.PP
In the \fBmcf\fR file, a line describing an optical device must contain
the following:
.TP 2
\(bu
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field must be the path to
the special file, such as \fB/dev/samst/c\fIn\fBt\fIn\fBu\fIn\fR,
for the \fBsamst\fR device driver.
For more information, see the \fBsamst\fR(7) man page.
.TP
\(bu
The \fBFamily Set\fR field is used to associate the drive with the
library that has the same \fBFamily Set\fR.
If the family set is defined as a dash (\fB\-\fR), the drive is
assumed to be manually loaded.
.TP
\(bu
The \fBEquipment Type\fR field contains the optical drive
identifier, as follows:
.PP
.RS 2
.nf
\fBEquipment Type\fR
.fi
.PD 0
.TP 15
\fBField Content\fR
\fBDefinition\fR
.PD
.TP
.B od
Generic optical disk.  A disk that is automatically configured by
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS.
If you specify \fBod\fR, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
sets the appropriate type based on the SCSI vendor code.
.sp
\fBNOTE\fR that an \fBod\fR definition is preferred for all
optical drives.
If you specify \fBod\fR in the
\fBEquipment Type\fR field, the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS software sets the
appropriate type based on the SCSI vendor code.
The remainder of the
definitions in this list are supported but are not recommended
for use in an \fBmcf\fR file.
.TP
.B o2
12 inch WORM drive.
.TP
.B wo
5 \(14 inch optical WORM drive.
.TP
.B mo
5 \(14 inch erasable optical drive.
The Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments support disks
with 512-, 1024-, and \%2048-byte sectors.
.TP
.B pu
Plasmon UDO drive.
.TP
.B mf
IBM Multi Function optical drive.
.RE
.PP
Note that for all \%magneto-optical media,
the default \fBarchmax\fR value is 5 megabytes.
.SH Tape Drives
This subsection describes the set of tape drives supported by
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS software for use in manually
mounted and automated libraries.
.PP
A line in the \fBmcf\fR file for a tape drive must contain information
in the following other fields:
.TP 2
\(bu
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR must be the path to the raw device,
typically, \fB/dev/rmt/\fIn\fRbn\fR.
However, it can be any symbolic link that also points to the proper special
file in the \fB/devices\fR tree. 
You must specify the
BSD \%no-rewind path.
.sp
If the device supports compression, then that path
should be specified for better tape usage;
except if the \fBST_AUTODEN_OVERRIDE\fR drive option bit is set in
an \fBst.conf\fR entry, you cannot specify a compression preference
by changing the dev entry.  Any attempt to specify compression
is ignored.
This is determined by the Solaris SCSI tape driver, st.
The compression state of the drive is determined by
its \%power-on default.
.sp
For more information, see the \fBmtio\fR(7) man page.
.TP
\(bu
The \fBFamily Set\fR field must be used to associate the device
with the library that has the same \fBFamily Set\fR name.
If the family set is a dash character (\fB-\fR),
then the device is assumed to be a manually loaded device.
.TP
\(bu
The \fBAdditional Parameters\fR is required for a tape drive
if the \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field does not contain
information in a \fB/dev/rmt/*\fR format (the standard \fBst\fR
device driver).
If specified, the \fBAdditional Parameters\fR field must contain
the path to the special file, such
as \fB/dev/samst/c\fIn\fBt\fIn\fBu\fIn\fR,
for the \fBsamst\fR device driver.
For more information, see the \fBsamst\fR(7) man page.
.PP
If Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS has access to a tape device,
no other user should be allowed access the device during
that period.
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS change the mode
on the path supplied in
the \fBmcf\fR file to \fB0660\fR at startup, or when the device state
moves from \fBdown\fR to \fBon\fR.
When the state moves from \fBon\fR to \fBdown\fR,
the mode is set to the value of \fBtp_mode\fR in
the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file.
For more information, see tbe \fBdefaults.conf\fR(4) man page.
.PP
The following list shows the tape drives
for each type of tape media supported.
The tape drives supported by Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS
are as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fBEquipment Type\fR
.fi
.PD 0
.TP 15
\fBField Content\fR
\fBDefinition\fR
.PD
.TP
.B tp
Generic tape drive.
These tapes are automatically configured by Sun
StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS.
.sp
\fBNOTE\fR that a \fBtp\fR definition is preferred for all
tape drives.
If you specify \fBtp\fR in the
\fBEquipment Type\fR field, the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS software sets the
appropriate type based on the SCSI vendor code.
The remainder of the
definitions in this list are supported but are not recommended
for use in an \fBmcf\fR file.
.TP
.B dt
DAT 4mm tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBdt_blksize = 16\fR.
.TP
.B lt
Digital linear tape (DLT) drive (including Super DLT and DLT-S4).
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this type of media is \fBlt_blksize = 128\fR.
.TP
.B xt
Exabyte (850x) 8mm tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBxt_blksize = 16\fR.
.TP
.B xm
Exabyte \%Mammoth-2 8mm tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBxm_blksize = 128\fR.
.TP
.B fd
Fujitsu M8100 \%128-track tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBfd_blksize = 256\fR.
.TP
.B i7
IBM 3570 tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBi7_blksize = 128\fR.
.TP
.B li
IBM 3580, Seagate Viper 200 and HP Ultrium (LTO)
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBli_blksize = 256\fR.
.TP
.B ib
IBM 3590 tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBib_blksize = 256\fR.
.TP
.B m2
IBM 3592 J1A and E05 tape drives.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBm2_blksize = 2048\fR.
.TP
.B vt
Metrum VHS (RSP-2150) tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBvt_blksize = 128\fR.
.TP
.B at
Sony AIT tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBat_blksize = 128\fR.
.TP
.B sa
Sony Super AIT tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBsa_blksize = 2048\fR.
.TP
.B so
Sony DTF tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBso_blksize = 1024\fR.
.TP
.B st
StorageTek 3480 tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBst_blksize = 128\fR.
.TP
.B se
StorageTek 9490 tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBse_blksize = 128\fR.
.TP
.B sg
StorageTek 9840 tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBsg_blksize = 256\fR.
.TP
.B d3
StorageTek D3 tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBd3_blksize = 256\fR.
.TP
.B sf
StorageTek T9940 tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBsf_blksize = 256\fR.
.TP
.B ti
StorageTek Titanium tape drive.
In the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, the default block size keyword for
this media is \fBti_blksize = 2048\fR.
.PP
For all tapes, the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
system sets the block size
to a \%media-specific default.
For information on
how to change the default block size, see the \fBdefaults.conf\fR(4)
man page.
.PP
For all tapes, the default \fBarchmax\fR value is 512
megabytes.
.SH Disk Archiving
The archiver can be configured to archive directly to online disk cache.
To enable disk archiving, you must perform the following
steps:
.TP 3
1.
Create directories in online disk cache to serve as destinations
for the archive copies.
.TP
2.
Create the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/diskvols.conf\fR file.
.TP
3.
Edit the \fBarchiver.cmd\fR file and add
the \%\fB-disk_archive\fR directive.
.PP
The media type for a disk volume is \fBdk\fR.
The block size for a disk volume is \fBdk_blksize=1024\fR.
This value cannot be changed.
.PP
The media type for a Sun StorageTek 5800 Storage System disk volume
is \fBcb\fR.
The 5800 schema specifies the metadata attributes that are stored
with objects in the 5800 system.  The system comes preconfigured with
a default metadata schema.  For a 5800 disk volume you must modify
the default schema file to add metadata specific to \%SAM-FS.
For more information on configuring the schema, refer to the
Sun StorageTek 5800 System Adminstration Guide.
The file \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/metadata_config_samfs.xml\fR can be used to extend the default schema for \%SAM-FS.
.PP
Disk archiving is explained in more detail in the \fISun StorEdge QFS
and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS Installation and Configuration Guide\fR and in
the \fISun StorEdge \%SAM-FS Storage and Archive Management Guide\fR.
.SH \%SAM-Remote Device Definitions
Several identifiers define devices when using the Sun \%SAM-Remote
client or Sun \%SAM-Remote server software.
For more information on configuring the Sun \%SAM-Remote client or the
Sun \%SAM-Remote server,
see the \fBsam-remote\fR(7) man page or see the
\fISun SAM-Remote Administrator's Guide\fR.
.PP
The identifiers used when configuring the Sun \%SAM-Remote client or
Sun \%SAM-Remote server are as follows:
.PP
.nf
\fBEquipment Type\fR
.fi
.PD 0
.TP 15
\fBField Content\fR
\fBDefinition\fR
.PD
.TP
.B ss
Sun \%SAM-Remote server.  The
\fBEquipment Identifier\fR field must contain the path name to the
server configuration file.
The \fBFamily Set\fR field must identify the server.
That is, it must be the same as the \fBFamily Set\fR name of the server.
It must match the name used in the client side definition.
It is used by the clients to associate the
device with the server of the same \fBFamily Set\fP name.
.TP
.B sc
Sun \%SAM-Remote client.  The
\fBEquipment Identifier\fR field must contain the path name to the
client configuration file.
The \fBFamily Set\fR field must contain an identifier that is
the same as the family set name of the server.
It is used by the clients to associate the
device with the server of the same \fBFamily Set\fR name.
The \fBAdditional Parameters\fR field must contain the full path name of
the client's library catalog file.
.TP
.B rd
Sun \%SAM-Remote \%pseudo-device.
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field must be the path to
the \%pseudo-device, such as \fB/dev/samrd/rd2\fR.
The \fBFamily Set\fR field must be the name of the server.
It is used by the clients to associate the
device with the server of the same \fBFamily Set\fR name.
.SH FILES
.TP 25
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples\fR
Contains example \fBmcf\fR files.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fISun \%SAM-Remote Administrator's Guide\fR.
.PP
\fISun StorEdge QFS and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS File System Administrator's
Guide\fR.
.PP
\fISun StorEdge \%SAM-FS Storage and Archive Management Guide\fR.
.PP
\fBchmod\fR(1).
.PP
\fBbuild_cat\fR(1M),
\fBdump_cat\fR(1M),
\fBmount\fR(1M),
\fBmount_samfs\fR(1M),
\fBsammkfs\fR(1M).
\fBsam-fsd\fR(1M),
.PP
\fBdefaults.conf\fR(4),
\fBinquiry.conf\fR(4),
\fBvfstab\fR(4).
.PP
\fBdst\fR(7),
\fBfujitsulmf\fR(7),
\fBgrauaci\fR(7),
\fBhistorian\fR(7),
\fBibm3494\fR(7),
\fBmtio\fR(7),
\fBsam-remote\fR(7),
\fBsamst\fR(7),
\fBsony\fR(7),
\fBst\fR(7),
\fBstk\fR(7).
