.\" $Revision: 1.3 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH notify.cmd 4 "12 Jan 2007"
.SH NAME
notify.cmd \- Sun StorageTek \%QFS or Sun StorageTek \%SAM \%email
.br
subscriptions commands file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/notify.cmd
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Sun StorageTek \%QFS or Sun StorageTek \%SAM system has the
ability to inform a user of certain events or conditions
by generating a message and automatically sending email
notifications.

The /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/notify.cmd stores the email addresses
for the following notifications:
No space available on file system (ENospace),
Recovery Point warnings (DumpWarn),
Recovery Point errors (DumpInterrupted),
File System exceeded its high water mark (HwmExceeded),
ACSLS configuration warnings (AcslsWarn), and
ACSLS configuration errors (AcslsErr).
 
The email subscriptions are added, modified and deleted
only via the File System Manager software, a browser-based
graphical user interface to the Sun StorageTek \%QFS or
Sun StorageTek \%SAM software.

This file is created automatically after installation and 'root'
is assigned as the default subscriber for all notifications.

If you would like to add, modify or delete subscriptions,
use the Email Alerts feature in the File System
Manager software.

To preserve compatibility, the email subscriptions for
Archiving is Interrupted,
Recycling is complete,
Library or Tape drive is down and,
Requested volume is unavailable,
are automatically added to the
/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/archiver.sh (1M),
/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/recycler.sh (1M),
/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/dev_down.sh (1M),
and /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/load_notify.sh (1M) respectively.
.SH MANUAL EDITING
The /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/notify.cmd consists of the notification
type followed by the list of email addresses that have
subscribed to it.

Each notification type and its respective subscriber list are
space separated, while the email addresses are comma separated.

It is is highly recommended that you only use the File System
Manager software to add, modify, or delete subscriptions, but
if you must manually modify this file, take care to 
preserve the formatting of this file.
.SH EXAMPLE

The following is an example \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/notify.cmd\fP file:

.ft CO
    DumpInterrupted root, samadmin@xxx
    ENospace root
    HwmExceeded
.fi
.ft

The above entries indicate that root is to receive email notifications
if the File System is full or if errors are encountered when
taking recovery points.
There are no subscribers for the 'File System exceeded its
high water mark' notification.

To remove 'root' as a subscriber, the file should now read as follows:

.ft CO
    DumpInterrupted samadmin@xxx
    ENospace
    HwmExceeded
.fi
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sendtrap (1M).
.PP
.BR defaults.conf (4).
