.\" $Revision: 1.18 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH preview.cmd 4 "03 Dec 2001"
.SH NAME
preview.cmd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS preview directives file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/preview.cmd\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
An archive or stage request for a volume that is not currently loaded
goes to the preview area for future consideration.
A user can control the scheduling of preview requests, thus overriding
the default behavior, by entering directives in
the \fBpreview.cmd\fR file.
.PP
The \fBpreview.cmd\fR file contains directives for
modifying preview request priorities.
The directives allow users to increase the priority for specific VSNs 
and change archive request priorities based on the file system 
states regarding High Water Mark (HWM) and Low Water Mark (LWM).
These directives are read by \fBsam-amld\fR at start-up time,
and all values specified are stored in shared memory.
The priority specifications cannot
be changed while the \fBsam-amld\fR daemon
is running.
.PP
The \fBpreview.cmd\fR file can contain comments.
A comment begins with a pound character (\fB#\fR) and extends
through the end of the line.
.SH DIRECTIVES
The directives in the \fBpreview.cmd\fR file are specified one per line.
With regard to their placement within the \fBpreview.cmd\fR file,
there are two types of directives:
.TP 2
\(bu
Global directives.
These directives apply to all file systems.
Directives are assumed to be global if they appear in
the \fBpreview.cmd\fR file prior to any \fBfs =\fR directives.
.TP
\(bu
Directives specific to a particular file system.
File system specific directives must appear after the global directives
in the \fBpreview.cmd\fR file.
A directive line with the following form names a specific file system
and indicates that all subsequent directives apply only to that
file system:
.sp
.ft CO
fs = \fIfile_system_family_set_name\fR
.ft
.PP
.RS 2
A subsequent \fBfs =\fR directive in the \fBpreview.cmd\fR file
declares a set of directives that apply to another file system.
File system specific directives override general directives.
.RE
.PP
Some directives can be used as both global and file system
specific directives.  This can be useful, for example, if you
want to specify the \fBhwm_priority\fR directive globally to
apply to most Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems
but you also want to use it as a file system specific directive
to specify a different value for one particular file system.
.PP
The following sections describe the directives that can appear in
a \fBpreview.cmd\fR file.  You can specify either an integer or a
floating point value as an argument to the \fB_priority\fR
directives, but the system stores the value as a
floating point value internally.
.SS GLOBAL DIRECTIVES
Global directives must appear in the \fBpreview.cmd\fR file before
any \fBfs =\fR directives.  They cannot appear after an \fBfs =\fR
directive.  The global directives are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBvsn_priority = \fIvalue\fR
This directive specifies
the \fIvalue\fR by which the priority is to increase
for VSNs marked as high-priority VSNs.
For more information, see the \fBchmed\fR(1M) man page.
The \fBvsn_priority = 1000.0\fR by default.
.TP
\fBage_priority = \fIfactor\fR
This global directive specifies a \fIfactor\fR to
to be applied to the time (in seconds) that a request is allowed to wait
in the preview area to be satisfied.  The \fIfactor\fR is as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 2
\(bu
A \fIfactor\fR > 1.0, increases the weight of the time when
calculating the total priority.
.TP
\(bu
A \fIfactor\fR < 1.0, decreases the weight of the time when
calculating the total priority.
.TP 2
\(bu
A \fIfactor\fR = 1.0 has no effect on the default behavior.
The \fBage_priority = 1.0\fR by default.
.RE
.sp
For more information,
see the PRIORITY CALCULATION section of
this man page.
.SS FILE SYSTEM SPECIFIC DIRECTIVE
The \fBfs =\fR directive specifies a particular file system and applies
only to that specified file system.
This directive's syntax is as follows:
.TP 10
\fBfs = \fIfile_system_family_set_name\fR
This directive indicates that the subsequent directives apply only
to the indicated \fIfile_system_family_set_name\fR.
.SS GLOBAL OR FILE SYSTEM SPECIFIC DIRECTIVES
Several directives can be used either globally or as file system
specific directives.  These directives are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBhwm_priority = \fIvalue\fR
This directive indicates the \fIvalue\fP 
by which the priority is to
increase for archiving requests versus staging after the file
system crosses the HWM level.
This means that the releaser is running.
The \fBhwm_priority = 0.0\fR by default.
.TP
\fBhlwm_priority = \fIvalue\fR
This directive indicates the \fIvalue\fR
by which the priority is to increase for archiving requests
versus staging.  This directive is effective when the file system
is emptying, and the amount of data is between the
HWM and the LWM.
Because the file system is emptying, you may want to give priority
to loads for stage requests.
The \fBhlwm_priority = 0.0\fR by default.
.TP
\fBlhwm_priority = \fIvalue\fR
This directive indicates the \fIvalue\fR
by which the priority is to
increase for archiving requests versus staging.
This directive is effective when the file system is
filling up, and the amount of data is between the HWM and
the LWM.
Because the file system is filling up, you may want to give priority
to loads for archive requests.
The \fBlhwm_priority = 0.0\fR by default.
.TP 10
\fBlwm_priority = \fIvalue\fR
This directive specifies the \fIvalue\fR 
by which the priority is to increase for archiving requests versus
staging when the file system is below the LWM level.
The \fBlwm_priority = 0.0\fR by default.
.SH PRIORITY CALCULATION
The total preview request priority is the sum of all
priorities and is calculated as follows:
.PP
Total priority = vsn_priority + wm_priority + age_priority * time_in_sec
.PP
The \fBwm_priority\fR in the previous equation refers to whichever
condition is in effect at the time, either \fBhwm_priority\fR,
\fBhlwm_priority\fR, \fBlhwm_priority\fR, or \fBlwm_priority\fR.
All priorities are stored as floating point numbers.
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1.  This example \fBpreview.cmd\fR file sets
both the \fBvsn_priority\fR
and \fBhwm_priority\fR for
the \fBsamfs1\fR file system.  Other Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or
Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems 
not specified here use the default priority for the HWM.
All file systems use the default priorities for the LWM and the state
between LWM and HWM.
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
vsn_priority = 1000.0
fs = samfs1
hwm_priority = 100.0
.fi
.ft
.PP
Example 2.  The next example \fBpreview.cmd\fR file
sets priority factors for all Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems,
but it sets an explicit and different HWM priority factor for
the \fBsamfs3\fR file system.
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
hwm_priority = 1000.0
hlwm_priority = -200.0
lhwm_priority = 500.0
fs = samfs3
hwm_priority = 200.0
.ft
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO 
\fBchmed\fR(1M),
\fBsam-amld\fR(1M).
