.\" $Revision: 1.24 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH releaser.cmd 4 "06 Jan 2003"
.SH NAME
releaser.cmd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS releaser command file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/releaser.cmd\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
Directives for controlling the releaser
can be read from the
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/releaser.cmd\fR file.
The directives must appear one per line.
.PP
Comment lines are permitted.  Comment lines must begin with a
pound character (\fB#\fR), and the comment can extend through the
rest of the line.
.PP
Directives that appear prior to any \fBfs=\fR directive
are applied to all file systems.
Directives that appear after a \fBfs=\fR directive are applied
to the specified file system only.
Directives that are specific to a file system override general
directives.
.PP
The directives on this man page are divided into groups.
The weight directives for size and age determine the
release priority of a file.
The miscellaneous directives control whether a log file is
written, whether there is a minimum age required for files, and
other aspects of releasing.
.SH WEIGHT DIRECTIVES
The following weights are used to calculate the release priority of
each file in the file system.  Each file's priority is composed of
two parts:  size priority and age priority.  The size priority
plus the age priority equals the file's total release priority.
.SS Size Priority
The size priority is determined by the value of
the \fBweight_size\fR directive.
This directive has the following format:
.TP
\fBweight_size=\fIweight_size_value\fR
Sets the weight factor for the size of the file
to \fIweight_size_value\fR.
Specify a \%floating-point number in the following range:
.br
0.0 \(<= \fIweight_size_value\fR \(<= 1.0.
The default is 1.0.
.sp
The \fIweight_size_value\fR is multiplied by the size of
the file in \%4-kilobyte blocks
to arrive at the size component of the file's release priority.
.SS Age Priority
The age priority can be calculated in one of the following ways:
.TP 3
\(bu
The first method multiplies the value of the \fBweight_age=\fR
directive by the most
recent of the following ages:  access age, modify age, and
residence change age.
The access age is defined as the current time minus the
file's last access time.
The \fBweight_age\fR directive has the following format:
.RS 3
.TP
\fBweight_age=\fIweight_age_value\fR
Sets the weight factor for the overall age of the file
to \fIweight_age_value\fR.
The \fIweight_age_value\fR is
multiplied by the most recent of the file's access, modify or residence
change age to arrive at the age component of the file's release priority.  
Specify a \%floating-point number in the following range:
.br
0.0 \(<= \fIweight_age_value\fR \(<= 1.0.
The default is 1.0.
.sp
If you specify a \fBweight_age=\fR directive for a given file system,
you cannot specify \fBweight_age_access=\fR, \fBweight_age_modify=\fR,
or \fBweight_age_residence=\fR directives for the same file system.
.RE
.TP 3
\(bu
The second method allows you to specify separate weights for
the access, modify, and residence ages.
The ages are calculated in units of \%60-second minutes.
.sp
If you want to specify separate weights for the access, modify, and
residence ages, use the following directives in
the \fBreleaser.cmd\fR file:
.RS 3
.TP
\fBweight_age_access=\fIweight_age_access_value\fR
Sets the weight factor for the access age of the file
to \fIweight_age_access_value\fR.
Specify a \%floating-point number in the following range:
.br
0.0 \(<= \fIweight_age_access\fR \(<= 1.0.
The default is 1.0.
.sp
The \fIweight_age_access_value\fR is multiplied by the file's access
age (expressed in minutes).  This product, added to
the sum of the products of the modify and \%residence-change ages
multiplied by their respective weights, becomes the age component of the
file's release priority.
.sp
If you specify a \fBweight_age=\fR directive for a given file system,
you cannot specify a \fBweight_age_access=\fR
directive for the same file system.
.TP
\fBweight_age_modify=\fIweight_age_modify_value\fR
Sets the weight factor for the modify age of the file
to \fIweight_age_modify_value\fR.
Specify a \%floating-point number in the following range:
.br
0.0 \(<= \fIweight_age_modify\fR \(<= 1.0.
The default is 1.0.
.sp
The \fIweight_age_modify_value\fR is multiplied by the file's modify
age (expressed in minutes).  This product, added to
the sum of the products of the modify and \%residence-change ages
multiplied by their respective weights, becomes the age component of the
file's release priority.
.sp
If you specify a \fBweight_age=\fR directive for a given file system,
you cannot specify a \fBweight_age_modify=\fR
directive for the same file system.
.TP
\fBweight_age_residence=\fIweight_age_residence_value\fR
Sets the weight factor for the \%residence-change
age of the file to \fIweight_age_residence_value\fR.
Specify a \%floating-point number in the following range:
.br
0.0 \(<= \fIweight_age_residence\fR \(<= 1.0.
The default is 1.0.
.sp
The \fIweight_age_residence_value\fR is multiplied by the
file's \%residence-change
age (expressed in minutes).  This product, added to
the sum of the products of the modify and \%residence-change ages
multiplied by their respective weights, becomes the age component of the
file's release priority.
.sp
If you specify a \fBweight_age=\fR directive for a given file system,
you cannot specify a \fBweight_age_residence=\fR
directive for the same file system.
.RE
.SH MISCELLANEOUS DIRECTIVES
The following miscellaneous directives can be specified in
the \fBreleaser.cmd\fR file:
.TP
.BI "fs = " file_system_family_set_name
Specifies to the releaser that
the subsequent directives apply to the
indicated \fIfile_system_family_set_name\fR only.  
.TP
.BI "list_size = " number
Sets the number of candidate files for release during one 
pass of the file system.
For \fInumber\fR, specify an integer number in the following range:
.br
10 \(<= \fInumber\fR \(<= 2,147,483,648
.br
The default is based on the size of the .inodes file.  If there is enough
space for one million inodes (512-bytes/inode), \fInumber\fR is 100000,
otherwise it is 30000. If you have many small files in your file system
you may want to increase this number.
.TP
.B "no_release"
Prevents the releaser from releasing any files.
This directive is useful when you are tuning the priority weights.
Also see the \fBdisplay_all_candidates\fR directive.
By default, files are released.
.TP
.B "rearch_no_release"
Prevents the releaser from releasing files marked to be rearchived.
By default, files marked for rearchive are released.
.TP
.BI "logfile = " filename
Sets the name of the releaser's log file to \fIfilename\fR.
By default, no log file is written.
.TP
.B "display_all_candidates"
Writes the releaser priority for each file, as it is encountered,
to the log file.
This can be useful in tuning when used in conjunction with
the \fBno_release\fR directive.  This
directive allows you to judge the effect of
changing the priority weights.
By default file priority is not displayed in any way.
.TP
.BI "min_residence_age = " time
Sets the minimum residency age to \fItime\fR seconds.
This is the minimum
time a file must be online before it is considered to be a release 
candidate.
The default is 600 seconds (10 minutes).
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1.  This
example file sets the \fBweight_age=\fR and \fBweight_size=\fR
directives for
the \fBsamfs1\fR file system.  No releaser log is produced.
.ft CO
.nf

          fs = samfs1
          weight_age = .45
          weight_size = 0.3
  
.fi
.ft R
Example 2.  This example provides weights for all file systems.
All file system releaser runs are
logged to \fB/var/adm/releaser.log\fR.
.ft CO
.nf

          weight_age = 1.0
          weight_size = 0.03
          logfile = /var/adm/releaser.log
  
.fi
.ft R
Example 3.  This example specifies weights and log
files for each file system.
.ft CO
.nf

          logfile = /var/adm/default.releaser.log

          fs = samfs1

          weight_age = 1.0
          weight_size = 0.0
          logfile = /var/adm/samfs1.releaser.log

          fs = samfs2
 
          weight_age_modify = 0.3    
          weight_age_access = 0.03
          weight_age_residence = 1.0
          weight_size = 0.0
          logfile = /var/adm/samfs2.releaser.log

.fi
.ft
Example 4.  This example is identical in function to example 3, but it
specifies the \fBweight_size=\fR and \fBlist_size=\fR directives globally.
.ft CO
.nf
          logfile = /var/adm/default.releaser.log
          weight_size = 0.0
          list_size = 100000

          fs = samfs1

          weight_age = 1.0
          logfile = /var/adm/samfs1.releaser.log

          fs = samfs2
 
          weight_age_modify = 0.3    
          weight_age_access = 0.03
          weight_age_residence = 1.0
          logfile = /var/adm/samfs2.releaser.log

.fi
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR release (1).
.PP
.BR sam-releaser (1M).
