.\" $Revision: 1.9 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH rft.cmd 4 "04 AUG 2003"
.SH NAME
rft.cmd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file transfer server directives file (was ftp.cmd)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/rft.cmd\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Directives for controlling the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS file transfer server
are read from
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/rft.cmd\fR.
In the \fBrft.cmd\fR file, each directive must appear on its own line.
Each directive has the following format:
.PP
\fIkeyword\fR \fB=\fR \fIvalue\fR
.PP
Comment lines can appear in the \fBrft.cmd\fR file.
A pound sign (\fB#\fR) in column 1 indicates a comment line.
.PP
The \fBrft.cmd\fR file accepts the following directives:
.TP 10
\fBlogfile =\fR \fIfilename\fR
Sets the name of the rft log file to \fIfilename\fR,
specified as an absolute pathname.
By default, no log file is written.
.sp
The rft log file contains a line for each file transferred.
The line
contains the date, time, 
and the name of the file.
.TP 10
\fBtcpwindow =\fR \fIsize\fR
Sets the TCP window size for the data connection.
.I size
may be specified with the suffixes 'b', 'k', 'M', 'G', and 'T', for bytes,
kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes, and terabytes.  
The default unit size is bytes.
The default value is 0.
.sp
.TP 10
\fBblksize =\fR \fIsize\fR
Sets the amount of data to send down the socket at a time.
.I size
may be specified with the suffixes 'b', 'k', 'M', 'G', and 'T', for bytes,
kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes, and terabytes.
The default unit size is bytes.
The default value is 1024K bytes.
.sp
.SH EXAMPLES
The following is an example \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/rft.cmd\fR file:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
logfile = /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/log/rft
.fi
.ft
.PP
The results of the rft file transfer daemon's operations are
found in \fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/log/rft\fR.
.SH FILES
The following files are used by the file transfer server:
.TP 30
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/rft.cmd\fR
File transfer server command file.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsam-rftd\fR(1M).

