.\" $Revision: 1.2 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samdb.conf 4 "04 June 2008"
.SH NAME
samdb.conf \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS mySQL database access file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/samdb.conf\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The file \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/samdb.conf\fR contains access parameters to
the mySQL database for each SAM-FS family set.
.PP
Each entry is a single line of the form:
.PP
.nf
\fIfamil_set_name\fR\fB:\fR\fIhost\fR\fB:\fR\fIuser\fR\fB:\fR
\fIpassword\fR\fB:\fR\fIdatabase name\fR\fB:\fR\fIport\fR\fB:\fR
\fB:\fR\fIclient_flag\fR\fB:\fR\fImount_point\fR
.fi
.PP
where
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB\fIfamily_set_name\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
is the SAM-QFS family set name.
.sp
The \fBfamily_set_name\fR field must contain at least one character 
and must not contain a colon (\fB:\fR) or a newline (\fB\en\fR)\&.
.sp
.sp 1
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB\fIhost\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
is the hostname of the mySQL database server.  It may be either a
hostname or an IP address. If host is NULL or the string
"\fBlocalhost\fR", a connection to the local host is assumed.
.sp
.sp 1
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB\fIuser\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
is the MySQL login ID.
.sp
.sp 1
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB\fIpassword\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
is the MySQL password corresponding with the i\fIuser\fR name.
.sp
.sp 1
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB\fIdatabase_name\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
is the MySQL database name.
.sp
.sp 1
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB\fIport\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
is the TCP/IP port being used by the SAM-QFS database server.
If value is blank or 0, the default of 3306 is used.
.sp
.sp 1
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB\fIclient_flag\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
is the value of the client flag. See mySQL function \fImysql-real-connect()\fR
for details.
.sp
.sp 1
.in -16n
.sp
.ne 2
.mk
\fB\fImount_point\fR\fR
.in +16n
.rt
the file system  mount point for this family set.
.sp
.sp 1
.in -16n
.PP
Blank lines are treated as malformed entries and will cause consumers of the
file to fail. 
.SH "EXAMPLES"
.PP
The following is a sample \fBsamdb.conf\fR file:
.PP
.nf
samfs1:db.sun.com:3ksnn64:secret:samfs1:7009::/sam/sam1
samfs2:localhost:laura:secret:samfs2test:::/sam/sam2
.fi
.PP
In the this example, two family sets are represented.  The first line
shows \fIsamfs1\fR which
connects to the database on \fIdb.sun.com\fR via TCP port \fI7009\fR
with database name \fIsamfs1\fR. 
The second line shows \fIsamfs2\fR which connects tothe database on
\fIlocalhost\fR with database name \fIsamfs2test\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
