.\" $Revision: 1.26 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samfs.cmd 4 "03 Dec 2001"
.SH NAME
samfs.cmd \- Defines mount parameters for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, Sun StorEdge QFS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/samfs.cmd
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Commands for controlling 
.B samfs
mount parameters are read from
.BR /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/samfs.cmd .
These commands serve as defaults, and can be superseded by parameters
on the mount command. See \fBmount_samfs\fR(1M). 
The
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/samfs.cmd
file is read when
.B sam-fsd
is started.  You can change it at any time while
.B sam-fsd
is running.  The changes take effect when
.B sam-fsd
is restarted,
or sent the signal SIGHUP via the \fBsamd config\fR command.
.PP
When changing mount options in this file, you must unmount and mount the file 
system in order for the new mount options to take effect.
.PP
These commands are given one per line.
Comments begin with a # and extend through the end of the line.
Commands given before any "fs =" line apply in general to all
filesystems; "fs =" introduces commands which are specific to the
mentioned filesystem only.  Filesystem-specific commands override
general commands.
.SH COMMANDS
See
.BR mount_samfs (1M)
under OPTIONS for the list of supported commands.
The following additional command is available as well.
.TP
.BI "fs = " fs_name
This command specifies the following commands apply only to the
indicated file system with family set name \fIfs_name\fP.  
.SH EXAMPLE
This example file sets \fIhigh\fP and \fIlow\fP for 2 different filesystems,
samfs1 and samfs2.
.ft CO
.nf

          fs = samfs1
            high = 90
            low = 80
          fs = samfs2
            high = 80
            low = 75
  
.fi
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR release (1),
.BR setfa (1).
.PP
.BR mount_samfs (1M),
.BR sam-fsd (1M),
.BR sam_releaser (1M).
.PP
.BR sam_advise (3),
.BR sam_setfa (3).
.PP
.BR directio (3C).
.PP
.BR mcf (4).
