'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.9 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH sefsysevent 4 "07 Jan 2009"
.SH NAME
sefsysevent \- SEF sysevent
.SH SYNOPSIS
\%\fB/etc/sysevent/config/SUNW,SUNWsamfs,Device,sysevent.conf\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
In Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments, tape drive SCSI
log sense error counter pages 2 and 3 for media analysis are available
to the user via a Solaris sysevent.  SEF (System Error Facility) sysevents
are enabled by default with a default polling interval of once before unload.
SEF sysevents behavior is controlled by defaults.conf and samset.
.PP
How to add a sysevent handler for SEF sysevents:
.PP
A simple SEF sysevent handler should be executable and may look like this:
.sp
.nf
.ft CO
#!/bin/ksh
echo "$@" >> /var/tmp/xx.dat
exit 0
.fi
.ft
.PP
To add the SEF sysevent handler to the \fBsyseventd\fR(1M):
.sp
# syseventadm add -vSUNW -pSUNWsamfs -cDevice -sSEF /var/tmp/xx \e"\e$VENDOR\e" \e"\e$PRODUCT\e" \e"\e$USN\e" \e"\e$REV\e" \e$TOD \e$EQ_ORD \e"\e$NAME\e" \e$INQ_TYPE \e"\e$MEDIA_TYPE\e" \e"\e$VSN\e" \e$LABEL_TIME \e$LP2_PC0 \e$LP2_PC1 \e$LP2_PC2 \e$LP2_PC3 \e$LP2_PC4 \e$LP2_PC5 \e$LP2_PC6 \e$LP3_PC0 \e$LP3_PC1 \e$LP3_PC2 \e$LP3_PC3 \e$LP3_PC4 \e$LP3_PC5 \e$LP3_PC6 \e$WHERE \e$sequence
.PP
The \fBsyseventadm\fR(1M) add command above creates the
\fB/etc/sysevent/config/SUNW,SUNWsamfs,Device,sysevent.conf\fR file
and a path to your SEF sysevent handler \fB/var/tmp/xx\fR.  Note the double
quotes are required when using the \fBsyseventadm\fR(1M) command because
the strings can be empty and the data is positional.
.sp
To load the SEF sysevent handler:
.sp
# syseventadm restart
.PP
SEF sysevent event handler data looks like this:
.sp
.nf
.ft CO
# cat /var/tmp/xx.dat
"HP      " "Ultrium 2-SCSI  " "HUL2M00585" "F45H" 1094048112 82
"/dev/rmt/2cbn" 0x1 "li" "000750" 1091738029 0x0 0x0 0x0 0x0 0x0 0x70b1
0x0 0x0 0x0 0x0 0x322 0x322 0x4645 0x0 0x1 0x282
"HP      " "Ultrium 2-SCSI  " "HUL2M00617" "F5AH" 1094048116 81
"/dev/rmt/1cbn" 0x1 "li" "NAB975" 1092691221 0x0 0x0 0x0 0x0 0x0 0x35c
0x0 0x0 0x0 0x0 0x0 0x0 0x4a 0x0 0x1 0x283
.fi
.ft
.PP
A C language program to convert time of day $TOD and $LABEL_TIME sysevent macros from digits to text:
.sp
.nf
.ft CO
#include <stdio.h>
#include <sys/types.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <time.h>

void main(int argc, char **argv)
{
         char str[100];
         time_t tm = atol(argv[1]);

         cftime(str, "%C", &tm);
         printf("%s\n", str);
}
.fi
.ft
.PP
The complied sefsysevent_time program then can be used to determine the
label time of $VSN 000750.
.sp
.nf
.ft CO
# ./sefsysevent_time 1091738029
Thu Aug  5 14:33:49 MDT 2004
.fi
.ft
.PP
To change the default polling cycle from once at unload to once every five
minutes use:
.sp
.nf
.ft CO
# samset sef all on 300
# samset
...
device 80: tapealert on and supported, sef not applicable
device 81: tapealert on and supported, sef on and supported 300s
device 82: tapealert on and supported, sef on and supported 300s
device 90: tapealert on and supported, sef on and supported 300s
...

Or use /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/defaults.conf to change the default behavior:
# cat defaults.conf
sef=all on 300
.fi
.ft
.PP
The SEF sysevent macros are available in the
/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/sefvals.h
file.  The following is a description of the variables:
.TP 10
\fBField\fR
\fBValue\fR
.TP
Class
\fBDevice\fR
.TP
Subclass
\fBSEF\fR
.TP
Vendor
\fBSUNW\fR
.TP
Publisher
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.PP
SEF sysevent handler macros about SAM-FS configuration and the SCSI Log Sense 
Error Counters for pages 2 and 3 and parameters 0-6.
.TP 20
\fBName\fR
\fBValue and Data Type\fR
.TP
\fBVENDOR\fR
Inquiry vendor.  Data type is \fBstring\fR.
.TP
\fBPRODUCT\fR
Inquiry product.  Data type is \fBstring\fR.
.TP
\fBREV\fR
Inquiry revision.  Data type is \fBstring\fR.
.TP
\fBUSN\fR
Inquiry unit serial number.  Data type is \fBstring\fR.
.TP
\fBTOD\fR
Time of day.  Data type is \fBint32\fR.
.TP
\fBEQ_ORD\fR
\fBmcf\fR file Equipment Number.  Data type is \fBint16\fR.
.TP
\fBNAME\fR
Device name.  Data type is \fBstring\fR.
.TP
\fBVERSION\fR
Inquiry version.  Data type is \fBbyte\fR.
.TP
\fBINQ_TYPE\fR
Inquiry peripheral device type.  Data type is \fBbyte\fR.
.TP
\fBMEDIA_TYPE\fR
SAM-FS media type. Data type is \fBstring\fR.
.TP
\fBVSN\fR
Volume serial name.  Data type is \fBstring\fR.
.TP
\fBLABEL_TIME\fR
VSN label timestamp. Data type is \fBinteger\fR.
.TP
\fBSET\fR
\fBmcf\fR file Family Set.  Data type is \fBstring\fR.
.TP
\fBFSEQ\fR
\fBmcf\fR file Family Set Equipment Number.  Data type is \fBint16\fR.
.TP
\fBWHERE\fR
SEF location poll=1 or unload=0.  Data type is \fBbyte\fR.
.PP
Write log sense page 2:
.TP 20
\fBName\fR
\fBValue and Data Type\fR
.TP
\fBLP2_PC0\fR
Errors corrected without substantial delay.  Data type is \fBuint32\fR.
.TP
\fBLP2_PC1\fR
Errors corrected with possible delays.  Data type is \fBuint32\fR.
.TP
\fBLP2_PC2\fR
Total rewrites.  Data type is \fBuint32\fR.
.TP
\fBLP2_PC3\fR
Total errors corrected.  Data type is \fBuint32\fR.
.TP
\fBLP2_PC4\fR
Total times correction algorithm processed.  Data type is \fBuint32\fR.
.TP
\fBLP2_PC5\fR
Total bytes processed.  Data type is \fBuint64\fR.
.TP
\fBLP2_PC6\fR
Total uncorrected errors.  Data type is \fBuint32\fR.
.PP
Read log sense page 3:
.TP 20
\fBName\fR
\fBValue and Data Type\fR
.TP
\fBLP3_PC0\fR
Errors corrected without substantial delay.  Data type is \fBuint32\fR.
.TP
\fBLP3_PC1\fR
Errors corrected with possible delays.  Data type is \fBuint32\fR.
.TP
\fBLP3_PC2\fR
Total rereads.  Data type is \fBuint32\fR.
.TP
\fBLP3_PC3\fR
Total errors corrected.  Data type is \fBuint32\fR.
.TP
\fBLP3_PC4\fR
Total times correction algorithm processed.  Data type is \fBuint32\fR.
.TP
\fBLP3_PC5\fR
Total bytes processed.  Data type is \fBuint64\fR.
.TP
\fBLP3_PC6\fR
Total uncorrected errors.  Data type is \fBuint32\fR.
.PP  
To do simple media analysis, the captured sef data in the /var/tmp/xx.dat
file can be formatted for StarOffice spreadsheet analysis and graphing.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsamset\fR(1M),
\fBdefaults.conf\fR(4),
\fBsefdata\fR(4),
\fBsefreport\fR(1M),
\fBtapealert\fR(1M).
