.\" $Revision: 1.31 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH stager.cmd 4 "03 Apr 2006"
.SH NAME
stager.cmd \- Defines Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS stager directives
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/stager.cmd\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Directives for controlling the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS stager
are read from
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/stager.cmd\fR.
In the \fBstager.cmd\fR file, each directive must appear on its own line.
Each directive has the following format:
.PP
\fIkeyword\fR \fB=\fR \fIvalue\fR
.PP
Comment lines can appear in the \fBstager.cmd\fR file.
A pound sign (\fB#\fR) in column 1 indicates a comment line.
.PP
The \fBstager.cmd\fR file accepts the following directives:
.TP 10
\fBdirectio = \fIon|off\fR
Set the file reading method for staging. The directive \fIon\fR
will set direct I/O for all staging. \fIoff\fR will cause paged
I/O to be used. The default is on.
.sp 1
NOTE: Staging on a shared QFS file system always uses direct I/O.
.TP 10
\fBdrives =\fR \fIlibrary\fR \fIcount\fR
Sets the number of drives to use for staging
on media library \fIlibrary\fR to a number specified
by \fIcount\fR.
The default value is the actual number of drives in \fIlibrary\fR.
.sp
The \fIlibrary\fR specified must be the family set name
of a media library as defined in the \fBmcf\fR file.
If this directive is specified, the stager uses only \fIcount\fR
number of drives in the media library
to stage archive copies.
This directive prevents the stager from using all
drives in a media library and possibly interfering with archiving.
.sp
For example, the following directive specifies that 3 drives
should be used for staging in an ADIC/Grau media library.
.sp
.ft CO
drives = gr50 3
.ft
.TP
\fBbufsize =\fR \fImedia\fR \fIbuffer_size\fR [ \fBlock\fR ]
Sets the stage buffer size for a specific media type.
.sp
For \fImedia\fR, specify a media type from the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.sp
For \fIbuffer_size\fR, specify an integer value in the
range \fB2\fR \(<= \fIbuffer_size\fR \(<= \fB8192\fR.
The default is \fB16\fR.
The \fIbuffer_size\fR specified is multiplied by the default block
size for \fImedia\fR.
For more information on default block sizes, see the
\fIdev_\fBblksize\fR description on the \fBdefaults.conf\fR(4) man
page.
.sp
If \fBlock\fR is specified, the stager locks the stage buffer
in memory.  If the stage buffer is locked, system CPU time can be
reduced.
.TP
\fBlogfile =\fR \fIfilename\fR [\fIevent\fR]
Sets the name of the stager log file to \fIfilename\fR,
specified as an absolute pathname.
By default, no log file is written.
\fIevent\fR is start, finish, cancel, error, or all.  The default
is finish, cancel, and error.
.sp
The stager log file contains a line for each file staged.
The line
contains the event type, date, time, media, VSN,
inode generation number of the file,
position and offset of where the file is stored,
name of the file, copy number, user id, group id, requestor's user id,
equipment ordinal of the drive upon which the file was staged,
and the type of stage, 'V' for data verify and '-' for others.
.TP
\fBmaxactive =\fR \fInumber\fR
Sets the maximum number of stage requests that can
be active at one time in the stager to an integer \fInumber\fR.
The minimum \fInumber\fR is \fB1\fR.
The default \fInumber\fR is based on memory size, 25000 per gigabyte.
The maximum \fInumber\fR is \fB500000\fR.
.sp
The number of outstanding stage requests has a direct impact on incore inode
usage, since each request requires an incore inode for the duration of the
stage.
Sites may wish to increase the default number of incore inodes if they
greatly increase the maximum number of stage requests.
This can be done by setting \fBninodes\fR in the \fB/etc/system\fR file,
as shown in the following example.
.sp
set samfs:ninodes=100000
.sp
For more information on \fBninodes\fR, see the
\fISun StorEdge QFS Configuration and Administration Guide\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following is an example \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/stager.cmd\fR file:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
logfile = /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/log/stager
drives= hp30 1
.fi
.ft
.PP
The results of the stager's operations are
found in \fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/log/stager\fR.
For the media library specified as \fBhp30\fR,
the stager is allowed to use only 1 drive
for staging files.
.SH FILES
The following files are used by the stager:
.TP 30
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/stager.cmd\fR
Stager command file.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsam-stagerd\fR(1M).
.PP
\fBdefaults.conf\fR(4),
\fBmcf\fR(4).
