.\" $Revision: 1.22 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH intro_libsam 3 "15 May 2007"
.SH NAME
\fBintro_libsam\fR, \fBintro_libsamrpc\fR \- Introduces the Sun StorageTek QFS and Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS Application Programmer Interface (API) routines
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Sun StorageTek QFS and Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS
API allows a Sun StorageTek QFS, Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS, or Sun \%SAM-QFS
file to be requested from within an
application program.  The aplication program can reside either on the
machine upon which the Sun StorageTek QFS, Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS, or Sun \%SAM-QFS
file system is running
or on another machine on the network.
This man page provides an introduction to the API routines.
.PP
The following topics are presented:
.TP 2
\(bu
API overview
.TP
\(bu
API library routines
.TP
\(bu
Using \fBlibsam\fR
.TP
\(bu
Using \fBlibsamrpc\fR
.SH API OVERVIEW
When a request is made, the process or program making the request is
the client process or program, running on the client machine.  The
requests are received and processed by the server, running on the
server, or host, machine.  For the API routines, the server machine
is always the machine upon which the Sun StorageTek QFS, Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS,
or Sun \%SAM-QFS file
system is running.
.PP
In the simplest case, the client and server machines are the same,
and no network communication is necessary.  In other cases, however, 
the application programmer needs to allow for the client program to
run on a machine where the Sun StorageTek QFS, Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS,
or Sun \%SAM-QFS
file system
is not running.  In this
case, networked library calls from \fBlibsamrpc\fR must be used.
.PP
The two API libraries available with the Sun StorageTek QFS,
Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS,
and Sun \%SAM-QFS
file systems are as follows:
.TP 2
\(bu
\fBlibsam\fR.  The library calls in \fBlibsam\fR do not perform network
communication.  They only make local requests.  In this case, each
library call makes a system call, and the server is the local operating
system.
.TP
\(bu
\fBlibsamrpc\fR.  The library calls in \fBlibsamrpc\fR use
Remote Procedure Calls
(RPCs) to communicate with a special server process, \fBsam-rpcd\fR.
Because
of the RPC mechanism, the client and server can exist on the same
machine or on different machines in the network.  The server process
always runs on the machine upon which the Sun StorageTek QFS,
Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS, or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system is running.
.PP
Both \fBlibsam\fR and \fBlibsamrpc\fR are released in shared
object (\fB.so\fR) and
archive (\fB.a\fR) format for Solaris platforms.  \fBlibsam.so\fR
and \fBlibsam.a\fR are
installed in \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib\fR.  \fBlibsamrpc.so\fR
and \fBlibsamrpc.a\fR are
installed in \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/client/lib\fR, with symbolic
links to them
in \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib\fR.
.SH API LIBRARY ROUTINES
The library calls for the Sun StorageTek QFS, Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS, and
Sun \%SAM-QFS software
are supported in \fBlibsam\fR, and a subset is
supported in \fBlibsamrpc\fR.
.PP
Table 1 lists the API library routines and
indicates the environments in which they are supported.
In addition, table 1 indicates the libraries in which they
are included:
.PP
\fBTable 1.  Library routine availability\fR
.TP 15
\fBRoutine\fR
\fBDescription\fR
.TP
\fBsam_advise\fR
Sets file attributes.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek QFS, Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_archive\fR
Sets archive attributes on a file.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR and \fBlibsamrpc\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_rearchive\fR
Sets rearchive attributes on a file.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_exarchive\fR
Exchanges archive copies of a file or directory.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_unarchive\fR
Removes archive copies for a file or directory.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_unrearch\fR
Removes rearchive attributes on a file or directory.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_damage\fR
Sets damaged attribute on a file or directory.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_undamage\fR
Clears damaged and stale status of a file or directory.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_cancelstage\fR
Cancels a pending or in-progress stage on a file.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_closecat\fR
Ends access to the catalog for an automated library.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_closerpc\fR
Closes down the RPC connection.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsamrpc\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_devstat\fR, \fBsam_ndevstat\fR
Gets device status.  \fBsam_ndevstat\fR accepts a longer device name.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_devstr\fR
Translates numeric device status into a character string.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_getcatalog\fR
Obtains a range of entries from the catalog for an automated library.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_initrpc\fR
Initializes the RPC connection.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsamrpc\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_opencat\fR
Accesses the VSN catalog for an automated library.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_readrminfo\fR
Gets information for a removable media file.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_release\fR
Releases and sets release attributes on a file.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR and \fBlibsamrpc\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_request\fR
Creates a removable media file.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_restore_copy\fR
Creates an archive copy for a file.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_restore_file\fR
Creates an offline file.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_segment\fR
Sets segment attributes on a file or directory.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR and \fBlibsamrpc\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_segment_stat\fR
Obtains file information and follows symbolic links to
a segmented file.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_setfa\fR
Sets file attributes.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek QFS, Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR and \fBlibsamrpc\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_ssum\fR
Sets checksum attributes on a file.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_stage\fR
Stages and sets stage attributes on a file.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR and \fBlibsamrpc\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_stat\fR, \fBsam_lstat\fR
\fBsam_stat\fR obtains file information and follows symbolic links to
the file.
\fBsam_lstat\fR obtains file information, and if that file is a link,
it returns information about the link.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek QFS, Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS,
and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR and \fBlibsamrpc\fR.
.TP
\fBsam_vsn_stat\fR, \fBsam_segment_vsn_stat\fR
Obtain VSN status for a file or a file's data segment that overflows VSNs.
.br
Availability:  Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.br
Libraries:  \fBlibsam\fR.
.PP
All APIs in \fBlibsam\fR, except for \fBsam_closecat\fR,
\fBsam_getcatalog\fR, and \fBsam_opencat\fR, are available for use
with 64-bit programs.
Sun Microsystems, Inc. does not support a 64-bit version of \fBlibsamrpc\fR.
.PP
For more details about each library routine, see the
individual corresponding man page for that routine.
Library routines contained in \fBlibsam\fR are found
in section 3 of the online man pages.  Library routines contained
in \fBlibsamrpc\fR are found in section 3X of the online man pages.
.SH USING libsam
No special initialization or configuration is required prior to using
the API library routines in \fBlibsam\fR.
The application program must be linked with \fBlibsam\fR, however.
For information on the
routines, see the individual \fBlibsam\fR man pages,
all of which are listed in the \fBSEE ALSO\fR section of this man page.
.SH USING libsamrpc
The source code for \fBlibsamrpc\fR is included in the release for
customers who wish to write and run application programs on platforms
that do not run the Solaris operating system.  In these cases, the
library must be ported to the client machine.  The source code is
located in \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/client/src\fR.  Example application
programs are located in \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/client/examples\fR.
.SS Specifying the Server Machine
A call to \fBsam_initrpc\fR is required before any other RPC client
API calls can be executed successfully.  Only one \fBsam_initrpc\fR
call is required, followed by any number of other client API calls
(other than \fBsam_closerpc\fR).  The \fBsam_initrpc\fR call accepts
one argument:  a pointer to a character string that
specifies the name of the server machine.  If this pointer
is \fBNULL\fR, \fBsam_initrpc\fR checks for an environment variable
named \fBSAMHOST\fR.  If this environment variable is set, that name
is used for the server machine.  If there is no \fBSAMHOST\fR
environment variable, the default server name \fBsamhost\fR is used.
.PP
In summary, the name of the server machine can be specified in any of
three ways, which are checked by \fBsam_initrpc\fR in the following order:
.TP 3
1.
As an argument to the \fBsam_initrpc\fR call.
.TP
2.
As the environment variable \fBSAMHOST\fR.
.TP
3.
By accepting the default server name, \fBsamhost\fR.
.SS RPC Server Process
The RPC API server process receives and processes requests from
the client.  This server process, \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-rpcd\fR,
must be run on the same machine as the file system.  The \fBsam-rpcd\fR
daemon must be running for client requests to execute successfully.
.PP
The \fBsam-rpcd\fR daemon is started automatically by \fBsam-amld\fR
if the appropriate entry is made in the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file.
For information on editing the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file,
see \fBConfiguring the API\fR later in this man page.
.PP
The \fBsam-rpcd\fR daemon can also be started manually.
It should be run as superuser.
The \fBsam-rpcd\fR command accepts no arguments.
.PP
The \fBsam-rpcd\fR daemon services the requests it receives by making the
appropriate system call on the server machine and then returning the
output or result to the client.  For more information on this daemon,
see the \fBsam-rpcd\fR(1M) man page.
.SS Configuring the API
The following steps describe setting up the API server and clients.
These steps assume that your software is properly configured and running.
.PP
\fIStep 1: Configure the API Server\fR
.PP
For the server portion of the API to run successfully, the following
conditions must be present:
.TP 2
\(bu
The RPC program name and number pair must be known on the server machine
.TP
\(bu
The RPC program name and number pair must be the same as the pair used
on the API client machines.
.PP
Make an entry for the RPC program name and number.  The RPC program number
is a number chosen by you.
The RPC program name is \fBsamfs\fR.  The name and
number pair must be the same on the server and all clients.
The \fB/etc/nsswitch.conf\fR file determines where you should specify
the RPC program name and number pair.  For more information on this, see
the \fBnsswitch.conf\fR(4) man page.
.PP
In \fB/etc/rpc\fR (or the NIS database), add the following line:
.PP
.ft CO
samfs		150005
.ft
.PP
In \fB/etc/services\fR (or the NIS database), add the following line:
.PP
.ft CO
samfs		5012/tcp	# Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS API
.ft
.PP
The API server is started automatically by the \fBsam-amld\fR daemon
if the following entry is made in the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file
(note that changes to the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file do not take effect
until the next time the \fBsam-amld\fR daemon is initialized):
.PP
.ft CO
samrpc = on
.ft
.PP
The \fBsam-rpcd\fR daemon is not automatically started if no entry
for it appears in the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file or if the following
entry appears in the file:
.PP
.ft CO
samrpc = off
.ft
.PP
For more information about the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file, see
the \fBdefaults.conf\fR(4) man page.
.PP
\fIStep 2:  Configure the API Client Machines\fR
.PP
The following two configuration components must be present on the
client machine for
the RPC communication to be successful:
.TP 2
\(bu
The name of the server machine.
.TP
\(bu
The RPC program name and number pair.
.PP
Make an entry for the RPC program name and number on all client machines,
as you did on the API server machine previously.  Again, the RPC program
name must be \fBsamfs\fR.  The RPC program number is a number chosen by you,
but it must be the same on the server and client machines.
.PP
In \fB/etc/rpc\fR (or the NIS database), add the following line:
.PP
.ft CO
samfs		150005
.ft
.PP
The host name of the server machine must be known on the client machine.
For default cases, the host name samhost must be listed as an alias for
the Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file system server machine.
For more information, see
the \fBsam_initrpc\fR(3X) man page.
.SS Authentication and \fBlibsamrpc\fR
Authentication information is generated at the time of
the \fBsam-initrpc\fR call.
This information consists of the user identification (\fBuid\fR) and
group identification (\fBgid\fR) of the calling process.  It is
associated with the connection made to the RPC server process.
.PP
Subsequent \fBlibsamrpc\fR calls have this information associated.  When the
request is received by the RPC server process on the server machine,
the uid and gid information is used.  File access and operations are
granted or denied based on this information.
.PP
It is important that the server machine have a common \fBuid\fR
and \fBgid\fR space with the client machines.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsam_advise\fR(3),
\fBsam_archive\fR(3),
\fBsam_rearch\fR(3),
\fBsam_exarchive\fR(3),
\fBsam_unarchive\fR(3),
\fBsam_unrearch\fR(3),
\fBsam_damage\fR(3),
\fBsam_undamage\fR(3),
\fBsam_cancelstage\fR(3),
\fBsam_closecat\fR(3),
\fBsam_devstat\fR(3),
\fBsam_devstr\fR(3),
\fBsam_getcatalog\fR(3),
\fBsam_lstat\fR(3),
\fBsam_ndevstat\fR(3),
\fBsam_opencat\fR(3),
\fBsam_readrminfo\fR(3),
\fBsam_release\fR(3),
\fBsam_request\fR(3),
\fBsam_restore_copy\fR(3),
\fBsam_restore_file\fR(3),
\fBsam_segment\fR(3),
\fBsam_setfa\fR(3),
\fBsam_ssum\fR(3),
\fBsam_stage\fR(3),
\fBsam_stat\fR(3).
.PP
\fBsam_archive\fR(3X),
\fBsam_closerpc\fR(3X),
\fBsam_initrpc\fR(3X),
\fBsam_lstat\fR(3X),
\fBsam_release\fR(3X),
\fBsam_stage\fR(3X),
\fBsam_stat\fR(3X).

