.\" $Revision: 1.8 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.TH qfs_listio 3 "10 Feb 2005"
.SH NAME
qfs_lio_read, qfs_lio_write, qfs_lio_poll, qfs_lio_wait \- Issues list I/O or waits for listio.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&.] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&.
\fB-L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib\fR
\fB-R/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib\fR
\fB-lsam [\fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&.]
.PP
\fB#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/listio.h"\fR
.PP
\fBint qfs_lio_init(qfs_lio_handle_t *\fIhdl\fB);\fR
.PP
\fBint qfs_lio_read(int \fIfd\fB,\fR
\fBint \fImem_list_count\fB, void **\fImem_addr\fB, size_t *\fImem_count\fB,\fR
\fBint \fIfile_list_count\fB, offset_t *\fIfile_off\fB, offset_t *\fIfile_len\fB,\fR
\fBqfs_lio_handle_t *\fIhdl\fB);\fR
.PP
\fBint qfs_lio_write(int \fIfd\fB,\fR
\fBint \fImem_list_count\fB, void **\fImem_addr\fB, size_t *\fImem_count\fB,\fR
\fBint \fIfile_list_count\fB, offset_t *\fIfile_off\fB, offset_t *\fIfile_len\fB,\fR
\fBqfs_lio_handle_t *\fIhdl\fB);\fR
.PP
\fBint qfs_lio_wait(qfs_lio_handle_t *\fIhdl\fB);\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
.nf
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBqfs_lio_read(\|)\fR
function issues a listio read for an open file descriptor.
.PP
The \fBqfs_lio_write(\|)\fR
function issues a listio write for an open file descriptor.
.PP
The \fBqfs_lio_init(\|)\fR
must be used to initialize a handle object before passing it to
one of the other interfaces.
.PP
The \fBqfs_lio_wait(\|)\fR
can be issued to wait until all I/O in the listio call has completed.
.SH ARGUMENTS
These functions accept the following arguments:
.TP 10
\fIfd\fR
issues I/O for a file using a Sun StorEdge \%QFS or
Sun \%SAM-FS ioctl call.
.TP
\fImem_list_count\fR
is the number of elements in the \fImem_addr\fR and \fImem_count\fR arrays.
.TP
\fImem_addr\fR, \fImem_count\fR
are arrays describing a list of memory regions.
.TP
\fIfile_list_count\fR
is the number of elements in the \fIfile_off\fR and \fIfile_len\fR arrays.
.TP
\fIfile_off\fR, \fIfile_len\fR
are arrays describing a list of file regions.
.TP
\fIhdl\fR
points to an opaque value that is used to indicate the status of
an asynchronous list I/O request.
If \fIhdl\fR is non-null, the function returns when all I/O has issued.
If \fIhdl\fR is NULL, the function returns when all I/O has been completed.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \fBqfs_lio_read(\|)\fR, \fBqfs_lio_write(\|)\fR, and
\fBqfs_lio_wait(\|)\fR fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB EINVAL
An invalid option was specified, or the file is not a regular file.
.TP
.SB EPERM
Not the owner or super-user.
.TP
.SB EFAULT
\fImem_addr\fR, \fImem_count\fR, \fIfile_off\fR, or \fIfile_len\fR
points to an illegal address.
.TP
.SB EINTR
A signal was caught during the
.B qfs_lio(\|)
function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR setfa (1),
.BR sam_setfa (3),
.BR directio (3C),
