.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_mig_rearchive 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_mig_rearchive \- Sets rearchive flag on files residing on foreign media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamut [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/mig.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_mig_rearchive(char *" "mount_point" ,
.BI "char **" "vsns" ,
.BI "char *" "media" );
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_mig_rearchive(\|)
is a routine that traverses a file system and marks archive files residing on
a foreign medium as needing to be rearchived.  This allows a site the 
ability to migrate files from the foreign media
to Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
media in a controlled fashion.  
.PP
.I mount_point
is the mount point of the
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system to scan.
.I vsns
is a NULL terminated list pointing to the VSNs to be searched.
.I media
is the two character string containing the foreign media type.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful initialization a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of 1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/migkit/mig_rearch.c
The example Migration Toolkit program.
.TP 20
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mcf (4).
