.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_advise 3 "16 Mar 2005"
.SH NAME
sam_advise \- Provides advice to the file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsam [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/lib.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_advise(const int " "fildes" ,
.BI "const char *" "ops" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam_advise(\|)
provides advice about expected behavior of the application when
accessing data in the file associated with the open file descriptor,
.I fildes.
.B sam_advise(\|)
provides advice for a file using a \%SAM-QFS ioctl call.
The last caller of sam_advise() sets the advice for all applications
using the file.
The last close of the file sets the advice back to the default mode.
.I ops
is the character string of options, for example:  "dw".  Individual options are
described below.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B b
Advises the system to use buffered (paged) I/O.
The default I/O mode is buffered (uses the page cache).
At the last close, the type of I/O is set back to paged or direct
based on the mount option
.BR forcedirectio
or the
.BR directio
attribute set by the
.BR setfa
command.
.TP
.B d
Return the advice on the file to the default,
i.e. the \f4qwrite\fP is reset to the mount setting.
When this option is specified, the advice is reset to the default.
If it is used, it should be the first character in the string.
.TP
.B p
Obsolete.  Now does nothing, but remains for compatibility.
.TP
.B r
Advises the system to use direct (raw) I/O (see directio(3C) for
Solaris 2.6 and above).
The default I/O mode is buffered (uses the page cache).
At the last close, the type of I/O is set back to paged or direct
based on the mount option
.BR forcedirectio
or the
.BR directio
attribute set by the
.BR setfa
command.
.TP
.B w
Advises the system to enable simultaneous reads and writes to the
same file from different threads.
See the \f4qwrite\fP parameter on the mount command.
The
.B w
option is only supported by the \fIma\fP equipment
type file system.
(See man
.BR mcf (4)).
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_advise(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB EINVAL
An invalid option was specified, or the file is not a regular file.
.TP
.SB EPERM
Not the owner or super-user.
.TP
.SB EFAULT
.I path
or
.I ops
points to an illegal address.
.TP
.SB EINTR
A signal was caught during the
.B sam_advise(\|)
function.
.TP
.SB ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP
.SB EMULTIHOP
Components of \f2path\f1 require hopping to multiple
remote machines
and the file system does not allow it.
.TP
.SB ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the
.I path
argument exceeds {\f4PATH_MAX\f1}, or the
length of a \f2path\f1 component exceeds {\f4NAME_MAX\f1} while
{\f4_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\f1} is in effect.
.TP
.SB ENOENT
The named file does not exist or is the null pathname.
.TP
.SB ENOLINK
.I path
points to a remote machine and the link
to that machine is no longer active.
.TP
.SB ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR setfa (1),
.BR sam_setfa (3),
.BR directio (3C),
.BR mlock (3C),
.BR mount_samfs (1M),
.BR mcf (4)
