.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_mig_mount_media 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_mig_mount_media \- Queues mount request for media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamut [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/mig.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "char *sam_mig_mount_media(char *" "vsn" ,
.BI "char *" "media" );
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_mig_mount_media(\|)
queues a mount request for the media with the volume serial number or
barcode \fIvsn\fR and media type \fImedia\fR.
.B sam_mig_mount_media(\|)
returns a pointer to the pathname of the device where the media is mounted.
A null pointer will be returned if the media cannot be mounted.
This pointer will actually be a symbolic link to the device.
The symbolic link will be deleted when the reservation for the device has 
expired or is released with \fBsam_mig_release_device\fR.
The daemon will wait for the device to close before releasing the device.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful completion a pointer to the pathname of the device is
returned.
Otherwise, a value of 0 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or \%SAM-QFS
.SH NOTE
Note that the media type passed to sam_mig_mount_media must be the
media type as shown in the catalog entry for the VSN.  It must not begin
with "z".
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mcf (5)
