.\" $Revision: 1.18 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_mig_create_file 3 "20 Dec 2007"
.SH NAME
sam_mig_create_file \- Creates an offline Sun StorageTek \%SAM-QFS file from foreign media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamut [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/mig.h"
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/stat.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_mig_create_file(char *" "path" ,
.BI "struct sam_stat *" "buf" );
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam_mig_create_file(\|)
creates an offline Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file from a foreign
(non- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS) media.
.B sam_mig_create_file(\|)
creates an offline file using information supplied by a foreign data
migration program.  The information used to identify the location of the
file is stored in the file inode in the archive record.
.PP
Note that the program calling this function is responsible for creating all
directories in the path
.I before
calling the function.
.PP
.I path
is the pathname to the file to be created.
It may be an absolute or relative pathname but must be no longer
than PATH_MAX (see the
.B /usr/include/limits.h file).
.PP
.I buf
is a sam_stat structure (see \fBsam_stat\fR(3)).
.PP
The following members in the \fBsam_stat\fR structure must
be filled in.  All other fields are ignored.
.PP
.nf
.ft 3
ulong_t       st_mode      /\(** File mode (see mknod(2)) \(**/
ulong_t       st_uid       /\(** User ID of the file's owner \(**/
ulong_t       st_gid       /\(** Group ID of the file's owner \(**/
u_longlong_t  st_size      /\(** File size in bytes \(**/
ulong_t       st_atime     /\(** Time of last access      \(**/
ulong_t       st_ctime     /\(** Time of last file status change \(**/
ulong_t       st_mtime     /\(** Time of last data modification  \(**/
.ft 1
.fi
.PP
.ne 12
These members in the sam_copy_s structure for the desired copy
(copy[] part of the sam_stat structure) must be filled in:
.nf
.ft 3
.ta 14n 30n
u_longlong_t	position;	/\(** Any 8 bytes \(**/
time_t	creation_time;	/\(** The time the archive file is created \(**/
uint_t	offset;	/\(** Any 4 bytes \(**/
char	vsn[32];	/\(** Any 31 characters \(**/
char	media[2];	/\(** 2nd character of media type (must be 'z') \(**/
char	media[3];	/\(** 3rd character of media type \(**/
		/\(** (must be a digit or lowercase alpha)\(**/
.ft 1
.fi
.PP
.TP 10
.B position
Any 8 bytes that the 3rd party media program requires.
.TP
.B creation_time
This is the time that the archive was made.  If
.B creation_time
is zero, it will be
set to the value of \fBtime()\fR.
.TP
.B offset
Any 4 bytes that the 3rd party media program requires.
.TP
.B vsn
This is any 31 characters.  The 32nd character must be a zero byte.
Other utilities may require this to be a valid VSN.
.TP
.B media
The second character of the two character media type.  If this field is zero,
then this copy does not contain any archive information and will be ignored.
At least one of the entries must contain information.
.sh "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful creation of a file a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.ft 3
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/migkit/mig_build_cd.c
The example Migration Toolkit program.
.TP
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sam_stat (3).
