'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.15 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_devstr 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_devstr \- Translates numeric device status into character string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsam [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/lib.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "char *sam_devstr(uint_t " "status" )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam_devstr(\|)
translates an unsigned integer,
.IR status ,
into a character status string based on the bits set in
.IR status ,
returning a pointer to the character string.
.PP
The meanings of the characters in the string returned are as follows:
.PP
.nf
.TS
tab (/) ;
 l l .
s---------/Volume is being scanned.
m---------/If a file system, the file system is mounted.
M---------/The device is in maintenance mode.
-E--------/Device received an unrecoverable error.
-a--------/Device is auditing.
 /If a file system, it is being archived.
--l-------/Volume has a label.
---I------/Device is in wait-idle mode.
---A------/Device requires operator attention.
----U-----/Unload has been requested.
-----R----/The device has been requested.
------w---/The device is open for writing.
-------o--/The device is open.
--------P-/The device is positioning (tape only).
--------F-/All storage slots are occupied (robotic devices only).
---------r/Device is ready.
 /If a file system, its disk space is being released.
---------R/Device is ready and the volume is \%read-only.
---------p/Device is present.
.TE
.fi
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
A pointer to the character status string is returned.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sam_devstat (3).
