.\" $Revision: 1.19 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_segment 3 "01 Oct 2004"
.SH NAME
sam_segment \- Sets segment attributes on a file or directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsam [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/lib.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_segment(const char *" "path" ,
.BI "const char *" "ops" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam_segment(\|)
sets segment attributes on a file or directory using
a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or a Sun \%SAM-QFS system call.
If a file is segmented, it is archived and staged in segment size chunks.
\fBsam_segment()\fR is not supported on a Sun \%SAM-QFS shared file system.
.I path
is the file on which to set the attributes.
.I ops
is the character string of options, for example:  "dl104857600".  
Individual options are described below.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B d
Return the segment file attributes on the file to the default, i.e. 
reset to the file access instead of segment access.
It not possible to reset a file that has already been segmented.
When this option is specified, the attributes are reset to the default.
If it is used, it should be the first character in the string.
.TP
.B l n
Specifies the segment size in units of bytes. The segment_size must be 
greater than or equal to one megabyte.
This segment size is
the size at which the file will be segmented for purposes of
archiving and staging. An error is returned if the file is greater
than the segment size.
.TP
.B s n
Specifies the number of segments to stage ahead when staging a
segmented file. This means when an offline segment is read, in
addition to staging the current segment, the
next 
.B n
segments are also staged. The default 
.B n
is zero, which means there is no stage read ahead. The maximum 
.B n 
is 255.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_segment(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB EINVAL
An invalid option was specified, or the file is neither a regular file nor a
directory. The file exceeds the specified segment size.
.TP
.SB EPERM
Not the owner or super-user.
.TP
.SB EFAULT
.I path
or
.I ops
points to an illegal address.
.TP
.SB EINTR
A signal was caught during the
.B sam_segment(\|)
function.
.TP
.SB ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP
.SB EMULTIHOP
Components of \f2path\f1 require hopping to multiple
remote machines
and the file system does not allow it.
.TP
.SB ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the
.I path
argument exceeds {\f4PATH_MAX\f1}, or the
length of a \f2path\f1 component exceeds {\f4NAME_MAX\f1} while
{\f4_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\f1} is in effect.
.TP
.SB ENOENT
The named file does not exist or is the null pathname.
.TP
.SB ENOLINK
.I path
points to a remote machine and the link
to that machine is no longer active.
.TP
.SB ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP
.SB ENOTSUP
License does not support segment.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR segment (1)
