.\" $Revision: 1.2 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.\"
.TH sam_rearch 3 "15 May 2007"
.SH NAME
sam_rearch \- Sets rearchive attributes on a file or directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsam [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/lib.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_rearch(const char *" "path" ,
.BI "int"  " num_opts" ,
.B "...");
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_rearch(\|)
sets rearchive attributes on a file or directory using a Sun
StorageTek \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS system call.
.I path
is the file on which to set the attributes,
followed by a sequence of 
.I num_opts 
input characters or options.
Individual options are described below.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fBc\fI copy_no\fR
Specifies the archive copy number.
If one or more \fB'c'\fR options are specified,
only those archive copies (1, 2, 3 or 4) are marked. 
If not specified, the default is all copies only
in the case that media type and VSN are
specified, using the \fB"m\fI media\fR" option and \fB"v\fI vsn\fR" option. 
.TP
\fBM\fR
Rearchives metadata only. This includes directories, the segment index,
and removable media files. Regular files and symbolic links are not rearchived.
.TP
\fBm\fI media\fR
Specifies the media type.
If specified, archive copies on the specified media are marked.
This option must be specified in conjunction with
the \fB"v\fI vsn\fR" option.
For more information on media types, see the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.TP
\fBo\fR
Requires the file to be online before its archive entry is rearchived.
If the file is offline, the function
stages the file onto disk before rearchiving any entries.
.TP
\fBv\fI vsn\fR
Marks archive copies on VSN \fIvsn\fR for rearchiving.
This option must be specified in conjunction with
the \fB"m\fI media\fR" option.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_rearch(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB EINVAL
An invalid option was specified, or the file is neither a regular file nor a
directory.
.TP
.SB EPERM
Not the owner or super-user.
.TP
.SB EFAULT
Argument points to an illegal address.
.TP
.SB EINTR
A signal was caught during the
.B sam_rearch(\|)
function.
.TP
.SB ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP
.SB ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the
.I path
argument exceeds {\f4PATH_MAX\f1}, or the
length of a \f2path\f1 component exceeds {\f4NAME_MAX\f1} while
{\f4_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\f1} is in effect.
.TP
.SB ENOENT
The named file does not exist or is the null pathname.
.TP
.SB ENOLINK
.I path
points to a remote machine and the link
to that machine is no longer active.
.TP
.SB ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rearch(1m),
.BR mcf(4)
