.\" $Revision: 1.20 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_chmed 3 "07 Jan 2009"
.SH NAME
sam_chmed \- Changes library catalog flags
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamapi [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/samapi.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_chmed(ushort_t " "eq_number" ,
.BI "uint_t " "ea" ,
.BI "int " "partition",
.BI "char *" "media" ,
.BI "char *" "vsn" ,
.BI "int " "flags" ,
.BI "int " "on_off" ,
.BI "int " "wait_response" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_chmed(\|)
sets or clears library catalog flags for a particular VSN
.I vsn
of
.I media
type or a robotic media changer equipment number
.I eq_number
and 
.I ea
and
.I partition
number.  If the
.I on_off
is set to one (1) or zero (0), the flag positions represented by the
.I flags
will be set or cleared, respectively.  The call will return immediately after
issuing the command if zero is specified for
.I wait_response
value.  Other values for
.I wait_response
will give undefined results.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_chmed(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB ER_FIFO_PATH_LENGTH
The path and filename for the FIFO pipe is too long.
.TP
.SB ER_INVALID_FLAG_SET
One of the flags specified to be set or cleared is not defined.
.TP
.SB ER_INVALID_MEDIA_TYPE
.I media
specified is not a valid media type. See
.B mcf(5)
for valid media types to be specified.
.TP
.SB ER_INVALID_VSN_LENGTH
.I vsn
specified is not the correct length.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_EQUIP_ORDINAL
.I eq_number
is not a defined equipment number in this configuration.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment defined.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM_ATT
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment found.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_RESPONSE_FIFO
Unable to create the response FIFO pipe.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_STAT_ROBOT_CATALOG
The robot media changer catalog for equipment number
.I eq_number
cannot be accessed for status.
.TP
.SB ER_NOT_VALID_SLOT_NUMBER
.I ea
is not a valid element address in the robot at equipment number
.I eq_number
.TP
.SB ER_ON_OFF_BAD_VALUE
.I on_off
value specified is not valid; must be one (1) or zero (0).
.TP
.SB ER_OPERATOR_NOT_PRIV
Operator does not have permission to change media catalog flags
.TP
.SB ER_ROBOT_CATALOG_MISSING
The robot media changer catalog for equipment number
.I eq_number
is missing and a full audit is required.
.TP
.SB ER_ROBOT_DEVICE_REQUIRED
.I eq_number
is not a robotic device
.TP
.SB ER_SLOT_NOT_OCCUPIED
No media exists at the element address
.I ea
specified
.TP
.SB ER_SLOT_OR_VSN_REQUIRED
Either a element address or volume serial number must be specified; both cannot
be specified.
.TP
.SB ER_UNABLE_TO_MAP_CATALOG
The catalog for the removable media changer at equipment number
.I eq_number
is unable to be mapped into memory.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.SB mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmed (8),
.BR sam-recycler (8),
.BR samu (8).
.PP
.BR mcf (5).
