.\" $Revision: 1.3 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.\"
.TH sam_damage 3 "15 May 2007"
.SH NAME
sam_damage \- Sets damaged attribute on a file or directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsam [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/lib.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_damage(const char *" "path" ,
.BI "int"  " num_opts" ,
.B "...");
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_damage(\|)
lets you mark archive copies of a file or a directory as damaged,
using a Sun StorageTek \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS system call.
.I path
is the file on which to set the attributes,
followed by a sequence of
.I num_opts
input characters or options.
Individual options are described below.
.PP
The function marks copies of a file or directory as damaged based on the
archive copy number and/or the media type and VSN specified.
There are several ways to mark one or more copies as damaged.
These ways are as follows:
.TP 3
\(bu
By copy number
.TP
\(bu
By copy number, media type, and VSN
.TP
\(bu
By copy number and media type
.TP
\(bu
By media type
.TP
\(bu
By media type and VSN
.PP
If a fatal error is detected when staging an archive copy,
that archive copy is marked as damaged.
An archive copy that is damaged is not selected for staging.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
\%\fBa\fR
Rearchives the damaged copy.
.TP
\fBc\fI copy_no\fR
Marks the specified archive copy number as damaged.
If one or more \fB'c'\fR options are
specified, only those archive copies (1, 2, 3, or 4)
are marked as damaged.
Specify \fB1\fR, \fB2\fR, \fB3\fR, or \fB4\fR for \fIcopy_no\fR.
Either a \fB"c\fI copy_no\fR" or a \fB"m\fI media\fR" option must be specified.
.TP
\fBM\fR
Marks only metadata as damaged.
This includes directories, the segment index,
and \%removable-media files.
Regular files are not marked as damaged.
If you are marking a directory as damaged, you must specify
the \%\fB"M\fR" option.
.TP
\%\fBm\ \fImedia_type\fR
Marks all copies from the specified \fImedia_type\fR as damaged.
For the list of possible \fImedia_type\fR specifications, see the
\fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
Either a \%\fB"c\fI copy_no\fR" or a \%\fB"m\fI media\fR" option must be specified.
If you specify a \%\fB"m\fI media\fR" option, you can also specify
a \%\fB"v\fI vsn\fR" option.
.TP
\%\fBo\fR
Specifies that the file must be online before it is marked as damaged. If the file is offline, the \fBsam_damage\fR function
stages the file to disk before deleting any entries.
.TP
\fBv\fI vsn\fR
Marks the archive copies on \fIvsn\fR as damaged.
For \fIvsn\fR, specify a volume serial name (VSN).
If you specify a \%\fB"v\fI vsn\fR" option, you must also specify
a \%\fB"m\fI media\fR" option.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_damage(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB EINVAL
An invalid option was specified, or the file is neither a regular file nor a
directory.
.TP
.SB EPERM
Not the owner or super-user.
.TP
.SB EFAULT
Argument points to an illegal address.
.TP
.SB EINTR
A signal was caught during the
.B sam_damage(\|)
function.
.TP
.SB ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP
.SB ENAMETOOLONG
The length of the
.I path
argument exceeds {\f4PATH_MAX\f1}, or the
length of a \f2path\f1 component exceeds {\f4NAME_MAX\f1} while
{\f4_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\f1} is in effect.
.TP
.SB ENOENT
The named file does not exist or is the null pathname.
.TP
.SB ENOLINK
.I path
points to a remote machine and the link
to that machine is no longer active.
.TP
.SB ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR damage(1m),
.BR mcf(4)
