.\" $Revision: 1.14 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_mig_stage_end 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_mig_stage_end \- Completes staging function for foreign data migration program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamut [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/mig.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_mig_stage_end(tp_stage_t *" "stage_req" ,
.BI "int " "error" );
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_mig_stage_end(\|)
is called when the foreign data migration program has finished the stage or
detected an error after \fBsam_mig_stage_file\fR has been called without error.
.I stage_req
is the number of this stage request.
.I error
is the number of the error to pass back to the file system.  A 0 indicates 
no error.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful completion a value of 0 is returned.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/migkit/mig_cd.c
The example Migration Toolkit program.
.TP 20
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sam_mig_stage_file (3).
