.\" $Revision: 1.15 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_getfsdisks 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_getfsdisks \- Obtains list of disks in family set
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamapi [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/samapi.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_getfsdisks(int " "eq" ,
.BI "struct sam_fs_disk *" "disks" ,
.BI "size_t " "disks_size" ,
.BI "uint " "start_pos" ,
.BI "int " "disk_count);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_getfsdisks(\|)
obtains the data for each disk in the specified family set, based on the
starting position number
.I start_pos
up to
.I disk_count
disks.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_getfsdisks(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB EFAULT
No address specified to store disk data.
.TP
.SB EINVAL
Size of storage area for disk data is too small for number of disks
requested.
.TP
.SB ER_DEVICE_NOT_CORRECT_TYPE
Device referenced by equipment ordinal
.I eq_ord
is not of family set or disk set type. 
.TP
.SB ER_NO_DEVICE_FOUND
No disks or partitions found for family set equipment ordinal
.I eq
.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment defined.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM_ATT
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment found.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.SB mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
