.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_devstat 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_devstat, sam_ndevstat \- Gets device status
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsam [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/devstat.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_devstat(ushort_t " "eq" ,
.BI "struct sam_devstat *" "buf" ,
.BI "size_t " "bufsize" );
.LP
.BI "int sam_ndevstat(ushort_t " "eq" ,
.BI "struct sam_ndevstat *" "buf" ,
.BI "size_t " "bufsize" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam_devstat(\|) and sam_ndevstat(\|)
obtain information about the device identified by the equipment number,
.IR eq .
.PP
.I buf
is a pointer to a
.B sam_devstat(\|) or sam_ndevstat(\|)
structure into which information
is placed concerning the device.
.PP
.I bufsize
is the length of the user's buffer to which
.I buf   
points.  This should be equal to or greater
than \fBsizeof(struct sam_devstat)\fR
or \fBsizeof(struct sam_ndevstat)\fR.
.PP
The contents of the structure pointed to by
.I buf
include the following members for 
.B sam_devstat(\|)
:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
.ta 9n 22n
u_short	type;	/\(** Media type \(**/
char	name[32];	/\(** Device name \(**/
char	vsn[32];	/\(** VSN of mounted volume, 31 characters \(**/
dstate_t	state;	/\(** State - on/ro/idle/off/down \(**/
uint_t	status;	/\(** Device status \(**/
uint_t	space;	/\(** Space left on device \(**/
uint_t	capacity;	/\(** Capacity in blocks \(**/

.ft 1
.fi
.RE
The contents of the structure pointed to by
.I buf
include the following members for 
.B sam_ndevstat(\|)
:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
.ta 9n 22n
u_short	type;	/\(** Media type \(**/
char	name[128];	/\(** Device name \(**/
char	vsn[32];	/\(** VSN of mounted volume, 31 characters \(**/
dstate_t	state;	/\(** State - on/ro/idle/off/down \(**/
uint_t	status;	/\(** Device status \(**/
uint_t	space;	/\(** Space left on device \(**/
uint_t	capacity;	/\(** Capacity in blocks \(**/

.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
.B type
The type of the media.  Masks for interpreting media type are defined in
devstat.h.
.TP
.B name
The name of the device, such as \fB/dev/rmt/3cbn\fR.
.TP
.B vsn
The VSN of the mounted volume, if any.  This is a \%null-terminated string with
a maximum of 31 characters.
.TP
.B state
The state of the device.  This field is an enumerated type defined in devstat.h.
.TP
.B status
The status of the device.  Status bits are defined in the file devstat.h.  Also,
the library routine
.BR sam_devstr (3)
is available to translate the numeric status field into a character string as
displayed in the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or
Sun \%SAM-QFS graphical user interfaces
and in the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS administrative tool
.BR samu (1M).
.TP
.B space
The space left on the device, in blocks.
.TP
.B capacity
The capacity of the device, in blocks.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_devstat(\|) or sam_ndevsat(\|)
fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB ENODEV
The equipment number supplied is not a valid number, or no device is
configured with that equipment number.
.TP
.SB EACCES
The program does not have permission to access the
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
shared memory segment.
.TP
.SB EINVAL
The size of the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or
Sun \%SAM-QFS shared memory segment is incorrect.
You may need to recompile your program with the current version of
the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS software.
.TP
.SB ENOENT
Access to the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
shared memory segment has failed;
possibly Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS is not running.
.TP
.SB EMFILE
The Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or
Sun \%SAM-QFS shared memory segment could not be accessed
because the number
of shared memory segments attached to the calling process would exceed the
\%system-imposed limit.
.TP
.SB ENOMEM
The available data space is not large enough to accommodate access to the
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS shared memory segment.
.TP
.SB E2BIG
For 
.B sam_devstat(\|)
only.  The name field of the device was too long
to fit in the name field of the \fBsam_dev\fR structure.  Use 
.B sam_ndevstat(\|).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR samu (1M).
.PP
.BR sam_devstr (3).
