'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.24 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.TH sam_stat 3 "19 May 2008"
.SH NAME
sam_stat, sam_lstat, sam_segment_stat \- Gets file or segment status
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcc\fR [\fIflag\fR \&.\&.\&.] \fIfile\fR \&.\&.\&.
\fB-L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib\fR
\fB-R/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib\fR
\fB-lsam [\fIlibrary\fR \&.\&.\&.]
.PP
\fB#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/stat.h"\fR
.PP
\fBint sam_stat(const char *\fIpath\fB,\fR
\fBstruct sam_stat *\fIbuf\fB,\fR
\fBsize_t \fIbufsize\fB);\fR
.PP
\fBint sam_lstat(const char *\fIpath\fB,\fR
\fBstruct sam_stat *\fIbuf\fB,\fR
\fBsize_t \fIbufsize\fB);\fR
.PP
\fBint sam_segment_stat(const char *\fIpath\fB,\fR
\fBstruct sam_stat *\fIbuf\fB,\fR
\fBsize_t \fIbufsize\fB);\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
.nf
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsam_stat(\|)\fR function
returns file system attributes
for the file to which \fIpath\fR points.
The \fBsam_segment_stat(\|)\fR function
works with segmented files.  It returns attributes for
the file segments to which \fIpath\fR points.
.PP
The \fBsam_lstat(\|)\fR
function returns file attributes similar to \fBsam_stat(\|)\fR.
The difference is that if \fIfile\fR is a symbolic link,
\fBsam_lstat(\|)\fR
returns information about the link, while
\fBsam_stat(\|)\fR
returns information about the file or the file's segments that
the link references.
.PP
If these functions succeed, they write file
attributes to the structure, or to the array of structures,
to which \fIbuf\fR points.  If they are returning information
about a segmented file, they write information about the first
file segment to
the first structure in the array of structures.  They write information
about the second file segment to the second structure in the array of
structures, etc.
.PP
Note that when \fBsam_stat(\|)\fR
and \fBsam_lstat(\|)\fR are executed on a segmented
file, the functions return information about the index inode.
.PP
The \fBsam_stat\fR and \fBsam_lstat\fR functions are supported
in Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
The \fBsam_segment_stat\fR
function is supported
in Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.SH OPTIONS
These functions accept the following arguments:
.TP 10
\fIpath\fR
Specifies the path to the file.  This is the file or segmented file
for which the file status is to be obtained. 
Read, write, or execute permission of the named \fIfile\fR is not required,
but all directories listed in the \fIpath\fR leading to the \fIfile\fR must
be searchable.
.TP
\fIbuf\fR
Specifies a pointer to a
structure into which information
is placed concerning the file.
The functions use one \fBsam_stat\fR structure
from this argument for each single file or file segment.
The length of \fIbuf\fR, in bytes, must be sized as follows:
.IP
\fIbytes\fR = \fInumber_of_segments\fR\ *\ \fBsizeof(struct\ sam_stat)\fR
.IP
The \fInumber_of_segments\fR is \fB1\fR for a nonsegmented
file (used by \fBsam_stat\fR and \fBsam_lstat\fR).
The \fInumber_of_segments\fR is greater than \fB1\fR for
a segmented file (used by \fBsam_segment_stat\fR).
.IP
For an unsegmented file, \fIbuf\fR must be
a \fBsam_struct\fR structure.
.IP
For a segmented file, \fIbuf\fR must be
an array of \fBsam_struct\fR structures.
.TP
\fIbufsize\fR
Specifies the length of the user's buffer, in bytes, to which \fIbuf\fR
points.
.SH STRUCTURE CONTENTS
Table 1 and Table 2 show the content of the structure pointed to
by \fIbuf\fR.
.PP
.ce 2
\fBTABLE 1.  Members of struct sam_stat That
Contain POSIX Standard File Attributes\fR
.PP
.TS
l l l.
\fBData Type\fR	\fBField Name\fR	\fBDescription\fR
\fBulong_t	st_mode\fR	File mode (see \fBmknod\fR(2)
\fBulong_t	st_ino\fR	Inode number
\fBulong_t	st_dev\fR	ID of device containing the file
\fBulong_t	st_nlink\fR	Number of links
\fBulong_t	st_uid\fR	Numeric user ID of the file's owner
\fBulong_t	st_gid\fR	Numeric group ID of the file's owner
\fBu_longlong_t	st_size\fR	File size in bytes
\fBtime_t	st_atime\fR	Time of last access
\fBtime_t	st_mtime\fR	Time of last data modification
\fBtime_t	st_ctime\fR	Time of last file status change
.TE
.PP
The following list describes Table 1's fields in more detail.
.TP 10
\fBst_mode\fR
The mode of the file as described in \fBmknod\fR(2).
In addition to the modes described in \fBmknod\fR(2),
the mode of a file may also be \fBS_IFLNK\fR if the file
is a symbolic link.
Note that \fBS_IFLNK\fR can be returned only by \fBsam_lstat\fR(\|).
.TP
\fBst_ino\fR
This field uniquely identifies the file in a given file system.
The pair \fBst_ino\fR and \fBst_dev\fR uniquely identifies regular files.
.TP
\fBst_dev\fR
This field uniquely identifies the file system that contains the file.
.TP
\fBst_nlink\fR
This field should be used only by administrative commands.
.TP
\fBst_uid\fR
The numeric user ID of the file's owner.
.TP
\fBst_gid\fR
The numeric group ID of the file's owner.
.TP
\fBst_size\fR
For regular files, this is the address of the end of the file.
.TP
\fBst_atime\fR
Time when file data was last accessed.
Changed by the following functions:
.BR creat ,
.BR mknod ,
.BR pipe ,
.BR utime ,
and
.BR read .
.TP
\fBst_mtime\fR
Time when data was last modified.
Changed by the following functions:
.BR creat ,
.BR mknod ,
.BR pipe ,
.BR utime ,
and
.BR write .
.TP
\fBst_ctime\fR
Time when file status was last changed.
Changed by the following functions:
.BR chmod ,
.BR chown ,
.BR creat ,
.BR link ,
.BR mknod ,
.BR pipe ,
.BR unlink ,
.BR utime ,
and
.BR write .
.PP
.ce 2
\fBTABLE 2.  Members of struct sam_stat That Contain
Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS File Attributes\fR
.PP
.TS
l l l.
\fBData Type\fR	\fBField Name\fR	\fBDescription\fR
\fBuint_t	old_attr\fR	Backward compatible, see attr
\fBtime_t	attribute_time\fR	Time attributes last changed
\fBtime_t	creation_time\fR	Time inode created
\fBtime_t	residence_time\fR	Time file changed residence
\fBstruct sam_copy_s	copy[MAX_ARCHIVE]\fR	Array of archive copy information
\fBuchar_t	cs_algo\fR	Checksum algorithm indicator
\fBuchar_t	flags\fR	Flags:  staging, stage err, etc.
\fBuchar_t	stripe_width\fR	Stripe width set by setfa -s or -h
\fBuchar_t	stripe_group\fR	Stripe group set by setfa -g or -o
\fBulong_t	gen\fR	Inode generation number
\fBulong_t	partial_size\fR	Partial size in kilobytes
\fBdev_t	rdev\fR	ID of device if S_IFBLK or S_IFCHR
\fBu_longlong_t	st_blocks\fR	Block count in 512 byte blocks
\fBulong_t	segment_size\fR	Segment size in megabytes
\fBulong_t	segment_number\fR	Number of this segment
\fBuint_t	stage_ahead\fR	Number of segment to stage ahead
\fBuint_t	admin_id\fR	admin ID; inherited from directory
\fBuint_t	allocahead\fR	Allocate ahead set by setfa -A
\fBuint_t	obj_depth\fR	Stripe depth (KB) set by setfa -v
\fBu_longlong_t	csum_val[2]\fR	128 checksum value
\fBtime_t	rperiod_start_time\fR	Time WORM retention period started
\fBuint_t	rperiod_duration\fR	WORM retention period duration
\fBu_longlong_t	attr\fR	File attributes
.TE
.PP
The following list describes Table 2's fields in more detail.
.TP 10
\fBattr\fR
Attributes assigned to the file by Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS
functions and operations.
.TP
\fBattribute_time\fR
Time when the Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS attributes last changed.
Changed by the following functions:
.BR sam_archive ,
.BR sam_release ,
and
.BR sam_stage .
Also changed by the automatic archive, release, and stage operations.
.TP
\fBcreation_time\fR
Time when the inode was created for the file.
.TP
\fBresidence_time\fR
Time when the file changed residency.
Changed by the release and stage operations.
.TP
\fBcs_algo\fR
Indicates the algorithm that is used when calculating the data verification
value (checksum) for the file.  For more information, see \fBssum\fR(1).
.TP
\fBflags\fR
Flags containing miscellaneous additional information about the file.
Includes a bit that indicates that a stage is pending
or is in progress on the file.  Also includes a bit that
indicates that the last attempt to stage the file failed.
.TP
\fBgen\fR
The inode generation number.
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon successful completion, a value of \fB0\fR is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \fB\-1\fR is returned and \fBerrno\fR
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
The \fBsam_stat(\|)\fR and \fBsam_lstat(\|)\fR functions
fail if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
\fBEACCES\fR
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix.
.TP
\fBEFAULT\fR
Either \fIbuf\fR or \fIpath\fR points to an illegal address.
.TP
\fBEINTR\fR
A signal was caught during \fBsam_stat(\|)\fR or \fBsam_lstat(\|)\fR
function processing.
.TP
\fBELOOP\fR
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating \fIpath\fR.
.TP
\fBEMULTIHOP\fR
Components of \fIpath\fR require hopping to multiple
remote machines and the file system does not allow it.
.TP
\fBENAMETOOLONG\fR
The length of the \fIpath\fR argument exceeds {\f4PATH_MAX\fR},
or the length of \fIpath\fR exceeds {\f4NAME_MAX\f1} while
{\f4_POSIX_NO_TRUNC\f1} is in effect.
.TP
\fBENOENT\fR
The named file does not exist or is the null pathname.
.TP
\fBENOLINK\fR
\fIpath\fR points to a remote machine,
and the link to that machine is no longer active.
.TP
\fBENOTDIR\fR
A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
.TP
\fBEOVERFLOW\fR
A component is too large to store in the structure to which \fIbuf\fR
points.
.SH EXAMPLES
This example uses \fBsam_segment_stat\fR to obtain the status of
a segmented file.
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
struct sam_stat file_info;
struct sam_stat *data_seg_info_ptr;
int number_of_data_segments;
int result;

/*
 * Initialize file_info to be all zero bits:
 */
memset((void *) &file_info, 0, sizeof(struct sam_stat));

/*
 * Stat the file using the regular sam_stat function:
 */
result = sam_stat(path, &file_info, sizeof(struct sam_stat));

if (result != 0) {
    fprintf(stderr, "Error failed to sam stat the file, %s.\\n", path);
    exit -70;
}

if (SS_ISSEGMENT_F(file_info.attr)) {
    /*
     * File is segmented, how many data segments does it have?
     */

    /*
     * Determine how many complete (full) segments it has:
     */
    number_of_data_segments = file_info.st_size /
                              (file_info.segment_size * 1048576);

    /*
     * Determine if it has one data segment that isn't "full":
     */
    if (file_info.st_size >
        number_of_data_segments * file_info.segment_size * 1048576) {
        number_of_data_segments++;
    }
} else {
    /*
     * File isn't segmented
     */
    number_of_data_segments = 1;
}

/*
 * Allocate enough memory to hold all of the stat information for each
 * data segment:
 */
data_seg_info_ptr = (struct sam_stat *) malloc(number_of_data_segments *
                                               sizeof(struct sam_stat));

if (data_seg_info_ptr == NULL) {
    fprintf(stderr, "Error failed to allocate memory for data segment stat operation.\\n");
    exit -80;
}

/*
 * Initialize file_info to be all zero bits:
 */   
memset((void *) data_seg_info_ptr, 0, number_of_data_segments *
                                      sizeof(struct sam_stat));

if (SS_ISSEGMENT_F(file_info.attr)) {
    /*
     * Use sam_segment_stat to get the stat information for all of the
     * data segments of the file.
     */
    result = sam_segment_stat(path, data_seg_info_ptr,
                                               number_of_data_segments *
                                               sizeof(struct sam_stat));
} else {
    /*
     * File is not segmented, just use the stat information from the
     * sam_stat call
     */
    memcpy((void *) data_seg_info_ptr, (void *)file_info, sizeof(struct sam_stat));
}

if (!SS_ISSEGMENT_F(file_info.attr)) {
    number_of_data_segments = 1;
    data_seg_info_ptr = &file_info_ptr;
}

/*
 * data_seg_info_ptr now points to an array of sam_stat structures.
 * There is one sam_stat structure for each data segment and they are
 * indexed 0 through  number_of_data_segments - 1.
 *
 * Do not forget to deallocate the memory buffer pointed to by
 * data_seg_info_ptr using free.
 */
.ft
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBssum\fR(1).
.PP
\fBmknod\fR(2),
\fBstat\fR(2).
