.\" $Revision: 1.15 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_set_fs_contig 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_set_fs_contig \- Sets the maximum number of contiguous blocks for I/O
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamapi [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/samapi.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_set_fs_contig(ushort_t " "eq_ord" ,
.BI "int " "max_contig" ,
.BI "int " "wait_response" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_set_fs_contig(\|)
sets the maximum number of contiguous blocks that can be read or written to
a mass storage device in the family set at equipment ordinal
.I eq_ord.
The value for
.I max_contig
can be from 1 to 128.  The default value is 8.  The block size is 16384
bytes.
.PP
The call will return immediately after issuing the command if
zero is specified for
.I wait_response
value.  Other values for
.I wait_response
will give undefined results.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_set_fs_contig(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB ER_DEVICE_NOT_CORRECT_TYPE
The specified
.I eq_ord
device is not a family set device.
.TP
.SB ER_FIFO_PATH_LENGTH
The path and filename for the FIFO pipe is too long.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_EQUIP_ORDINAL
.I eq_ord
is not a defined equipment ordinal in this configuration.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment defined.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM_ATT
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment found.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_RESPONSE_FIFO
Unable to create the response FIFO pipe.
.TP
.SB ER_OPERATOR_NOT_PRIV
Operator does not have permission to set maximum contiguous blocks.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.SB mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR samu (1M).
