.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_getcatalog 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_getcatalog \- Gets catalog entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsam [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/catalog.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_getcatalog(int " "cat_handle" ,
.BI "uint " "start_entry" ,
.BI "uint " "end_entry" ,
.BI "struct sam_cat_ent *" "buf" ,
.BI "size_t " "entbufsize" );
.SH AVAILABILITY
32-bit programs only
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam_getcatalog(\|)
obtains a range of entries from the catalog of an automated library or the 
historian.  The catalog from which entries will be obtained is indicated by
.IR cat_handle .
.IR cat_handle
is similar to a file descriptor, and is returned from a previous call to
.B sam_opencat(\|).
The range of entries is indicated by
.IR start_entry
and
.IR end_entry .
.IR start_entry
must be less than or equal to
.IR end_entry ,
and must be in the range of valid slot numbers for the automated library (or historian).
.I buf
is a pointer to an array of
.B sam_cat_ent
structures, into which the catalog entry information is placed.  This
array should be large enough to hold the number of entries requested.
.I entbufsize
is the size of a single
.B sam_cat_ent
structure, usually indicated by sizeof(struct sam_cat_ent).
.PP
The contents of a
.B sam_cat_ent
structure include the following members:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
.ta 9n 22n
/\(** catalog table entry \(**/
uint_t	type;	/\(** OBSOLETE \(**/
uint_t	status;	/\(** Catalog entry status \(**/
char	media[4];	/\(** Media type \(**/
char	vsn[32];	/\(** VSN \(**/
int	access;	/\(** Count of accesses \(**/
uint_t	capacity;	/\(** Capacity of volume \(**/
uint_t	space;	/\(** Space left on volume \(**/
int	ptoc_fwa;	/\(** First word address of PTOC \(**/
int	reserved[3];	/\(** Reserved space \(**/
time_t	modification_time;	/\(** Last modification time \(**/
time_t	mount_time;	/\(** Last mount time \(**/
uchar_t	bar_code[BARCODE_LEN + 1];	/\(** Bar code (zero filled) \(**/
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion the number of catalog entries obtained is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_getcatalog(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB EBADF
The catalog handle provided is invalid.
.TP
.SB EFAULT
.B buf
is an invalid address.
.TP
.SB EOVERFLOW
The catalog library software returned more information than was requested.
.TP
.SB ENOENT
This is no longer an active catalog.
.TP
.SB EINVAL
The buffer size provided is invalid, or
.B start_entry
or
.B end_entry
is invalid.  (Either
.B start_entry
is less than zero,
.B end_entry
is greater than the number of entries in the catalog, or
.B start_entry
is greater than
.BR end_entry .)
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sam_closecat (3),
.BR sam_opencat (3).
