.\" $Revision: 1.14 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_import 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_import \- Imports media to the removable media robotic device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamapi [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/samapi.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_import(ushort_t " "eq_ord" ,
.BI "char *" "vsn" ,
.BI "char *" "media_nm" ,
.BI "int " "audit_eod" ,
.BI "int " "wait_response" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_import(\|)
requests the robotic media changer to import the selected media into the
robot.  The media is placed in
the first available element address of the catalog.
For GRAU, STK, or IBM libraries, the
.I vsn
must be specified.  Physical import of media within the GRAU and STK are
performed by utilites supplied by the vendor.  Both the
.I vsn
and the
.I media_nm
need to be specified to import into the Historian.  
.PP
The call will return immediately after issuing the command if
zero is specified for
.I wait_response
value.  Other values for
.I wait_response
will give undefined results.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_import(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB ER_AUDIT_EOD_NOT_HISTORIAN
A non-zero
.I audit_eod
flag, requesting an audit to end-of-data, cannot be specified for the
Historian.
.TP
.SB ER_DEVICE_NOT_READY
The specified
.I eq_ord
device is not ready.
.TP
.SB ER_FIFO_PATH_LENGTH
The path and filename for the FIFO pipe is too long.
.TP
.SB ER_HISTORIAN_MEDIA_ONLY
.I media_nm
can only be specified for the Historian.
.TP
.SB ER_INVALID_MEDIA_TYPE
The specified
.I media_nm
is not a valid media type.
.TP
.SB ER_MEDIA_FOR_HISTORIAN
The type of media
.I media_nm
must be specified for the Historian.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_EQUIP_ORDINAL
.I eq_ord
is not a defined equipment ordinal in this configuration.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment defined.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_RESPONSE_FIFO
Unable to create the response FIFO pipe.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM_ATT
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment found.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_OPERATOR_NOT_PRIV
Operator does not have permission to import removable media.
.TP
.SB ER_ROBOT_DEVICE_REQUIRED
Equipment ordinal
.I eq_ord
is not defined as a robotic device.
.TP
.SB ER_VSN_BARCODE_REQUIRED
.I vsn
must be specified for the GRAU, STK, and IBM media changers and the Historian.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.SB mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR export (1M),
.BR import (1M),
.BR sam-robotsd (1M).
.PP
.BR sam_export (3).
.PP
.BR mcf (4).
