.\" $Revision: 1.18 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_load 3 "07 Jan 2009"
.SH NAME
sam_load \- Loads media on the removable media device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamapi [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/samapi.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_load(ushort_t " "eq_number" ,
.BI "char *" "vsn" ,
.BI "char *" "media" ,
.BI "uint_t " "slot" ,
.BI "int " "partition" ,
.BI "int " "wait_response" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_load(\|)
requests that the media be loaded from
.I slot:partition
or 
.I media.vsn
into device
.I eq_number.
The device must be in the unavailable state
(see \fBset_state\fR(1M)) and controlled by a media changer.  If device
.I eq_number
already has media loaded, it will be unloaded and the media put away before
the new media is loaded.
.PP
The call will return immediately after issuing the command if
zero is specified for
.I wait_response
value.  Other values for
.I wait_response
will give undefined results.
.PP
.B Note:
Loading media used by Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
for archiving could
result in the loss of the
data contained on that media.  Sun Microsystems, Inc.  strongly recommends
that archive media
.B NOT
be loaded in this manner.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_load(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB ER_DEVICE_NOT_READY
The specified
.I eq_number
device is not ready.
.TP
.SB ER_DEVICE_NOT_UNAVAILABLE
The specified
.I eq_number
device must be in the "unavailable" state (see
.B set_state(1M)
)
.TP
.SB ER_DEVICE_OFF_OR_DOWN
The specified
.I eq_number
device is "off" or "down" and must be in the "unavailable" state (see
.B set_state(1M)
)
.TP
.SB ER_DEVICE_USE_BY_ANOTHER
The specified
.I eq_number
device is busy and is being used by another process.
.TP
.SB ER_FIFO_PATH_LENGTH
The path and filename for the FIFO pipe is too long.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_EQUIP_ORDINAL
.I eq_number
is not a defined equipment number in this configuration.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment defined.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM_ATT
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment found.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_RESPONSE_FIFO
Unable to create the response FIFO pipe.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_STAT_ROBOT_CATALOG
The robot media changer catalog for equipment number
.I eq_number
cannot be accessed for status.
.TP
.SB ER_NOT_VALID_SLOT_NUMBER
The specified
.I ea
is not valid for
.I eq_number
device.
.TP
.SB ER_NOT_REMOV_MEDIA_DEVICE
The specified
.I eq_number
device is not a removable media device.
.TP
.SB ER_OPERATOR_NOT_PRIV
Operator does not have permission to load removable media.
.TP
.SB ER_ROBOT_CATALOG_MISSING
The robot media changer catalog for equipment number
.I eq_number
is missing and a full audit is required.
.TP
.SB ER_ROBOT_DEVICE_REQUIRED
Equipment number
.I eq_number
is not defined as a robotic device.
.TP
.SB ER_SLOT_IS_CLEAN_CARTRIDGE
.I ea
contains a cleaning cartridge.
.TP
.SB ER_SLOT_NOT_OCCUPIED
.I ea
does not contain any removable media.
.TP
.SB ER_SLOT_OR_VSN_REQUIRED
Either a
.I ea
in the media changer or a
.I vsn
must be specified.
.TP
.SB ER_UNABLE_TO_MAP_CATALOG
The catalog for the removable media changer at equipment number
.I eq_number
is unable to be mapped into memory.
.TP
.SB ER_VSN_NOT_FOUND_IN_ROBOT
The specified
.I vsn
cannot be found in the robotic media changer at equipment number
.I eq_number.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.SB mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR load (1M),
.BR set_state (1M),
.BR sam-robotsd (1M),
.BR unload (1M).
.PP
.BR sam_unload (3).
.PP
.BR mcf (4).
