.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_opencat 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_opencat \- Accesses an automated library's catalog to read entries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsam [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/catalog.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_opencat(const char *" "path",
.BI "struct sam_cat_tbl *" "buf" ,
.BI "size_t " "bufsize" );
.SH AVAILABILITY
32-bit programs only
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam_opencat(\|)
initiates access to the automated library catalog pointed to by
.IR path .
The string which
.IR path
points to is limited to 127 characters.
It returns a
.B sam_cat_tbl
structure in the area pointed to by
.I buf .
.I bufsize
is the length of the user's buffer to which
.I buf
points.  This should be equal to or greater than sizeof(struct sam_cat_tbl).
.PP
The user may have access to at most MAX_CAT catalogs at any one time.
.PP
The contents of a
.B sam_cat_tbl
structure include the following members:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
.ta 9n 22n
/\(** catalog table \(**/
time_t	audit_time;	/\(** Audit time \(**/
int	version;	/\(** Catalog version number \(**/
int	count;	/\(** Number of slots \(**/
char	media[4];	/\(** Media type, if entire catalog is one \(**/
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
Following the call to
.B sam_opencat(\|),
entries in the library catalog are obtained using
.B sam_getcatalog(\|).
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion, a catalog "handle" is returned, which is an
integer equal to or greater than zero.
.PP
This "handle" is used on subsequent calls to
.B sam_getcatalog(\|)
to specify the catalog to access, and is also used by
.B sam_closecat(\|)
to deallocate the "handle" and end access to the catalog.
.PP
If the call to
.B sam_opencat(\|)
fails, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_opencat(\|)
fails if one or more of the following error conditions are true:
.TP 20
.SB EMFILE
The user already has access to MAX_CAT catalogs , or the process has too many
open files.
.TP
.SB EINVAL
.I bufsize
is set to an invalid value, or either
.I path
or
.I buf
is a null pointer.
.TP
.SB ER_UNABLE_TO_INIT_CATALOG
This process was unable to initialize the catalog data.
.TP
.SB ENOENT
There is no active catalog file with the name given.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sam_closecat (3),
.BR sam_getcatalog (3)
