.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_move 3 "07 Jan 2009"
.SH NAME
sam_move \- Move media in a robotic media changer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamapi [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/samapi.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_move(ushort_t " "eq_number" ,
.BI "uint_t " "src_ea" ,
.BI "uint_t " "dest_ea" ,
.BI "int " "wait_response" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_move(\|)
requests that the media in the source element address
.I src_ea
be moved to the destination element address
.I dest_ea
in the robotic media changer at equipment number
.I eq_number.
The source element address
.I src_ea
must be in use and occupied (that is, the media is not mounted).  The
destination element address
.I dest_ea
must not be occupied or in use.  Some robotic media changers do not support
moving media between storage element addresses.
.PP
The call will return immediately after issuing the command if
zero is specified for
.I wait_response
value.  Other values for
.I wait_response
will give undefined results.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_move(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB ER_DEVICE_NOT_READY
The specified
.I eq_number
device is not ready.
.TP
.SB ER_DEVICE_USE_BY_ANOTHER
The specified
.I eq_number
device is busy and is being used by another process.
.TP
.SB ER_FIFO_PATH_LENGTH
The path and filename for the FIFO pipe is too long.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_EQUIP_ORDINAL
.I eq_number
is not a defined equipment number in this configuration.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment defined.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM_ATT
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment found.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_RESPONSE_FIFO
Unable to create the response FIFO pipe.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_STAT_ROBOT_CATALOG
The robot media changer catalog for equipment number
.I eq_number
cannot be accessed for status.
.TP
.SB ER_NOT_VALID_DEST_SLOT_NO
The specified destination element address
.I dest_ea
is not valid for
.I eq_number
device.
.TP
.SB ER_NOT_VALID_SLOT_NUMBER
The specified source element address
.I src_ea
is not valid for
.I eq_number
device.
.TP
.SB ER_OPERATOR_NOT_PRIV
Operator does not have permission to move removable media.
.TP
.SB ER_ROBOT_CATALOG_MISSING
The robot media changer catalog for equipment number
.I eq_number
is missing and a full audit is required.
.TP
.SB ER_ROBOT_DEVICE_REQUIRED
Equipment number
.I eq_number
is not defined as a robotic device.
.TP
.SB ER_ROBOT_NO_MOVE_SUPPORT
Robotic media changer at equipment number
.I eq_number
does not support movement of media between element addresses.
.TP
.SB ER_DST_SLOT_IS_OCCUPIED
.I dest_ea
already contains removable media.
.TP
.SB ER_SLOT_NOT_OCCUPIED
.I ea
does not contain any removable media.
.TP
.SB ER_DST_SLOT_NOT_AVAIL_MOVE
.I dest_ea
is not available for the move.
.TP
.SB ER_SRC_SLOT_NOT_AVAIL_MOVE
.I src_ea
is not available for the move.
.TP
.SB ER_UNABLE_TO_MAP_CATALOG
The catalog for the removable media changer at equipment number
.I eq_number
is unable to be mapped into memory.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.SB mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR export (1M),
.BR import (1M),
.BR sam-robotsd (1M).
.PP
.BR sam_export (3),
.BR sam_import (3).
.PP
.BR mcf (4).
