.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_closecat 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_closecat \- Closes a catalog handle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsam [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/catalog.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_closecat(int " "cat_handle");
.SH AVAILABILITY
32-bit programs only
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam_closecat(\|)
deallocates the catalog handle indicated by
.IR cat_handle .
.IR cat_handle
is a catalog "handle" obtained from a previous call to
.B sam_opencat(\|).
Deallocation of the catalog handle ends access to the automated library
catalog that it referred to, and
makes the catalog handle available for return by
subsequent calls to
.B sam_opencat(\|).
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_closecat(\|)
fails if one or more of the following error conditions are true:
.TP 20
.SB EBADFILE
.I cat_handle
is invalid.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sam_getcatalog (3),
.BR sam_opencat (3).
