'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.18 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_restore_file 3 "28 Jan 2002"
.SH NAME
sam_restore_file \- Creates an offline Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamut [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/stat.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_restore_file(const char *" "path" ,
.BI "struct sam_stat *" "buf" ,
.BI "size_t " "bufsize" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam_restore_file(\|)
creates an offline file in a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or
Sun \%SAM-QFS file system.
.B sam_restore_file(\|)
creates an offline file using information supplied by the user and
obtained from a source such as the \fBarchiver.log\fR file.
The file must not exist.
.PP
Note that the program calling this function is responsible for creating all
directories in the path
.I before
calling the function.
.PP
.I path
is the pathname to the file to be created.
It may be an absolute or relative pathname but must be no longer
than \fBPATH_MAX\fR (see the
.B /usr/include/limits.h file).
.PP
.I buf
is a \fBsam_stat\fR(3) structure (see \fBsam_stat\fR(3)).
.PP
.I bufsize
is the size of the \fBsam_stat\fR(3) structure (see \fBsam_stat\fR(3)).
.PP
The following members in the \fBsam_stat\fR(3)
structure must exist.  All other fields are ignored.
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
.ta 9n 22n
ulong_t      st_mode      /\(** File mode (see mknod(2)) \(**/
ulong_t      st_uid       /\(** User ID of the file's owner \(**/
ulong_t      st_gid       /\(** Group ID of the file's owner \(**/
u_longlong_t st_size      /\(** File size in bytes \(**/
ulong_t      st_atime     /\(** Time of last access      \(**/
ulong_t      st_ctime     /\(** Time of last file status change \(**/
ulong_t      st_mtime     /\(** Time of last data modification  \(**/
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
The following members in the sam_copy_s structure must exist for
all copies, if any. All other fields are ignored.
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
.ta 9n 22n
char         media[4];    /\(** Two character media type. \(**/
long_long    position;    /\(** Position of the file on the media. \(**/
time_t       creation_time; /\(** Time the archive copy was created \(**/
char         vsn[32];     /\(** Volume serial name of the media \(**/
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
.B position
The position of the file recorded on the media.
.TP
.B creation_time
This is the time that the archive was made.  If
.B creation_time
is zero, it will be
set to the value of \fBtime()\fR.
.TP
.B vsn
The volume serial name of the cartridge where the file resides.
.TP
.B media
The two character media type. See \fBmcf\fR(4). For example, the media
type for DLT tape is \f4lt\fP.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful creation of a file a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a negative value is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
The possible return values are:
.nf
.TS
tab (%) ;
 l l .
-1%user is not root
-2%invalid media type
-3%invalid VSN
-5%file does not exist
-6%restore failed for some other reason
.TE
.fi
.ft 3
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.TP
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sam_stat (3).


