.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_mig_stage_file 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_mig_stage_file \- Stages function from foreign data migration program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamut [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/mig.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_mig_stage_file(tp_stage_t *" "stage_req" );
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam_mig_stage_file(\|)
is called when the foreign data migration program is ready to start
staging the data for the stage request associated with \fIstage_req\fR.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.B sam_mig_stage_file(\|)
returns a 0 if the file system is ready for usage.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and ends all activity for this stage.
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/migkit/mig_cd.c
The example Migration Toolkit program.
.TP 20
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mcf (5).
