'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.20 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH sam_restore_copy 3 "24 Jan 2002"
.SH NAME
sam_restore_copy \- Creates an archive copy for a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or a Sun \%SAM-QFS file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBcc\fR
[\ \fIflag\fR\ \&.\&.\&.\ ]
\fIfile\fR\ \&.\&.\&.
\%\fB-L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib\fR
\%\fB-lsamut\ \fR[\ \fIlibrary\fR\ \&.\&.\&.\ ]
.PP
\fB#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/stat.h"\fR
.PP
\fBint sam_restore_copy(const char *\fIpath\fB,
int \fIcopy\fB,
struct sam_stat *\fIbuf\fB,
size_t \fIbufsize\fB,
struct sam_section *\fIvbuf\fB,
size_t \fIvbufsize\fB);\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsam_restore_copy()\fR library routine
creates an archive copy for an existing Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or
Sun \%SAM-QFS file.
The file must already exist and the archive copy must not exist.
The \fBsam_restore_copy()\fR library routine
creates an archive copy using information supplied by the user and
obtained from a source such as the \fBarchiver.log\fR.
This library routine accepts the following arguments:
.TP 10
\fIpath\fR
The path name to the file where the archive copy is being created.
It may be an absolute or relative path name, but it must be no longer
than \fBPATH_MAX\fR (see the \fB/usr/include/limits.h\fR file).
.TP
\fIcopy\fR
The copy number (0, 1, 2, or 3) of the archive copy that is being created.
.TP
\fIbuf\fR
A \fBsam_stat\fR structure.  See \fBsam_stat\fR(3).
.TP
\fIbufsize\fR
The size of the \fIsam_stat\fR structure.  See \fBsam_stat\fR(3).
.TP
\fIvbuf\fR
A \fBsam_section\fR structure for the array of VSNs if the archive
copy overflowed volumes, that is, \fBn_vsns\fR > 1.
If \fBn_vsns\fR = 1, \fIvbuf\fR should be set to NULL.
See \fBsam_stat\fR(3).
.TP
\fIvbufsize\fR
The size of the \fBsam_section\fR structure.
If \fBn_vsns = 1, \fIvbufsize\fR should be set to 0.
See \fBsam_stat\fR(3).
.PP
The following members in the \fBsam_stat\fR structure must exist.
All other fields are ignored.
.PP
.nf
ulong_t      st_mode      /\(** File mode (see mknod(2)) \(**/
ulong_t      st_uid       /\(** User ID of the file's owner \(**/
ulong_t      st_gid       /\(** Group ID of the file's owner \(**/
u_longlong_t st_size      /\(** File size in bytes \(**/
ulong_t      st_atime     /\(** Time of last access      \(**/
ulong_t      st_ctime     /\(** Time of last file status change \(**/
ulong_t      st_mtime     /\(** Time of last data modification  \(**/
.fi
.PP
The following members in the \fBsam_copy_s\fR structure must exist for the copy.
All other fields are ignored.
.PP
.nf
u_longlong_t position;    /\(** Position of the file on the media. \(**/
time_t       creation_time; /\(** Time the archive copy was created \(**/
uint_t       offset;      /\(** Location of the copy in the archive file \(**/
short        n_vsns;      /\(** Number of volumes used by the archive \(**/
char         media[4];    /\(** Two character media type. \(**/
char         vsn[32];     /\(** Volume serial name of the media volume \(**/
.fi
.PP
The preceding fields have the following meaning:
.TP 10
\fBposition\fR
The position of the file recorded on the media.
.TP 10
\fBcreation_time\fR
This is the time that the archive was made.  If \fBcreation_time\fR
is zero, it is set to the value of \fBtime()\fR.
.TP
\fBoffset\fR
The location of the copy in the archive file in units of 512 bytes.
.TP
\fBn_vsns\fR
The number of volumes that this copy spans.
.TP
\fBvsn\fR
The volume serial name of the cartridge where the file resides.
.TP
\fBmedia\fR
The \%two-character media type.
For example, the media type for DLT tape is \fBlt\fR.
See \fBmcf\fR(4).
.SH RETURN VALUES
Upon succesful creation of a file, a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a negative value is returned and \fBerrno\fR is set to indicate the error.
The possible return values are:
.nf
.TS
tab (%) ;
 l l .
-1%user is not root
-2%invalid copy number
-3%invalid VSN
-4%file does not exist
-5%file open failed
-6%uid and gid do not match those for the existing file
-7%invalid VSN for this copy
-8%multiple copies but vbufsize incorrect
-9%media type invalid
-10%copy restore failed for some other reason
.TE
.fi
.ft 3
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBsam_restore_file\fR(3),
\fBsam_stat\fR(3).
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(4).

