.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_mig_stage_write 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_mig_stage_write \- Stages data from foreign data migration program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamut [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/mig.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_mig_stage_write(tp_stage_t *" "stage_req" ,
.BI "char *" "buffer" ,
.BI "int " "len" ,
.BI "offset_t " "offset" );
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam_mig_stage_write(\|)
passes data from the foreign data migration program
to the file system for the stage associated with \fIstage_req\fR
(see \fBsam_mig_stage_file\fR(3)).
\fIstage_req\fR
is the number of this stage request.  \fIbuffer\fR is a pointer
to the data that needs to be transferred.
\fIlen\fR is the number of bytes of data to transfer.
\fIoffset\fR is the offset from the beginning of this stage request.
This is not the offset from the beginning of the file (keep in mind 
stage_never).
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.B sam_mig_stage_write
returns the actual number of bytes written.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned.
If an error is returned,
.B sam_mig_stage_end
should still be called.
The only function allowed on
.I stage_req
after an error is \fBsam_mig_stage_end\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/migkit/mig_cd.c
The example Migration Toolkit program
.TP 20
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sam_mig_stage_end (3),
.BR sam_mig_stage_file (3)
.BR
