.\" $Revision: 1.20 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_export 3 "07 Jan 2009"
.SH NAME
sam_export \- Exports media from the removable media robotic device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamapi [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/samapi.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_export(ushort_t " "eq_number" ,
.BI "char *" "vsn" ,
.BI "uint_t " "ea" ,
.BI "int " "wait_response" ,
.BI "int " "one_step" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_export(\|)
requests the robotic media changer to place the selected media that belongs
in
.I ea
or is labeled with
.I vsn
into the mail-slot of the media changer.  Either the
.I vsn
or the
.I ea
must be specified.  The
.I vsn
should be set to a NULL pointer if
.I ea
is specified.  The
.I ea
should be set to
.B ROBOT_NO_SLOT
if the
.I vsn
is specified.
.PP
The call will return immediately after issuing the command if zero is
specified for
.I wait_response
value.  Other values for
.I wait_response
will give undefined results.
.PP
For network-controlled media changers such as the GRAU using the GRAU ACT
interface, IBM 3494, or Sony libraries using PSC, this interface only
removes the entry from the catalog.  Physical removal and addition of media
within these media changers is performed by utilities supplied by GRAU, IBM,
and Sony. For STK network-controlled media changers using ACSLS, 
this interface removes the entry from the catalog only if zero is 
specified for 
.I one_step
value. Other values for
.I one_step
will cause the physical removal of media and also remove the media from
the catalog.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_export(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB ER_FIFO_PATH_LENGTH
The path and filename for the FIFO pipe is too long.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_EQUIP_ORDINAL
.I eq_number
is not a defined equipment number in this configuration.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master
shared memory segment defined.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM_ATT
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master
shared memory segment found.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_RESPONSE_FIFO
Unable to create the response FIFO pipe.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_STAT_ROBOT_CATALOG
The robot media changer catalog for equipment number
.I eq_number
cannot be accessed for status.
.TP
.SB ER_NOT_VALID_SLOT_NUMBER
.I ea
is not a valid element address in the robot at equipment number
.I eq_number
.TP
.SB ER_OPERATOR_NOT_PRIV
Operator does not have permission to export removable media.
.TP
.SB ER_ROBOT_CATALOG_MISSING
The robot media changer catalog for equipment number
.I eq_number
is missing and a full audit is required.
.TP
.SB ER_ROBOT_DEVICE_REQUIRED
Equipment number
.I eq_number
is not defined as a robotic device.
.TP
.SB ER_SLOT_NOT_OCCUPIED
.I ea
does not contain any removable media.
.TP
.SB ER_SLOT_OR_VSN_REQUIRED
Either
.I ea
or
.I vsn
must be specified
.TP
.SB ER_UNABLE_TO_MAP_CATALOG
The catalog for the removable media changer at equipment number
.I eq_number
is unable to be mapped into memory.
.TP
.SB ER_VSN_NOT_FOUND_IN_ROBOT
.I vsn
specified cannot be found in the specified robot at equipment number
.I eq_number
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.SB mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR build_cat (1M),
.BR dump_cat (1M),
.BR export (1M),
.BR import (1M),
.BR sam-robotsd (1M).
.PP
.BR sam_import (3).
.PP
.BR mcf (4).
