.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_set_state 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_set_state \- Sets the new state for a removable media device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamapi [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/devstat.h"
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/samapi.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_set_state(ushort_t " "eq_ord" ,
.BI "dstate_t " "new_state" ,
.BI "int " "wait_response" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B sam_set_state(\|)
sets the device at equipment ordinal
.I eq_ord
to the specified state enumeration value.  The set of values are:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
.ta 9n 22n
typedef enum dstate{
    DEV_ON,                /* Normal operations */
    DEV_RO,                /* Read only operations */
    DEV_IDLE,              /* No new opens allowed */
    DEV_UNAVAIL,           /* Unavaiable for file system */
    DEV_OFF,               /* Off to this machine */
    DEV_DOWN               /* Maintenance use only */
}dstate_t;
.ft 1
.fi
.SH
Depending on the current state, only certain new states can be set:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
.ta 9n 22n

Current State   Possible Next State
DEV_ON          DEV_IDLE, DEV_OFF
DEV_IDLE        Automatically goes to OFF when IDLE
DEV_OFF         DEV_DOWN, DEV_ON
DEV_DOWN        DEV_OFF
.ft 1
.fi
.SH
The call will return immediately after issuing the command if
zero is specified for
.I wait_response
value.  Other values for
.I wait_response
will give undefined results.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_set_state(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB ER_DEVICE_DOWN_NEW_STATE
If a device state is down, the new state for the specified
.I eq_ord
device must be off.
.TP
.SB ER_DEVICE_USE_BY_ANOTHER
The specified
.I eq_ord
device is in use by another process.
.TP
.SB ER_FIFO_PATH_LENGTH
The path and filename for the FIFO pipe is too long.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_EQUIP_ORDINAL
.I eq_ord
is not a defined equipment ordinal in this configuration.
.TP
.SB ER_INVALID_STATE_SPECIFIED
Specified state is not a valid value.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment defined.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_MASTER_SHM_ATT
No Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS master shared memory segment found.
Check that the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are mounted.
.TP
.SB ER_NO_RESPONSE_FIFO
Unable to create the response FIFO pipe.
.TP
.SB ER_NOT_REMOV_MEDIA_DEVICE
The device with equipment ordinal
.I eq_ord
is not a removable media device.
.TP
.SB ER_OPERATOR_NOT_PRIV
Operator does not have permission to set the state for devices.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.SB mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR samu (1M).
