.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH usam_mig_cancel_stage_req 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
usam_mig_cancel_stage_req \- Cancels a foreign media stage request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamut [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/mig.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int usam_mig_cancel_stage_req(tp_stage_t *" "stage_req" " )";
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B usam_mig_cancel_stage_req(\|)
cancels a stage request from the foreign data migration program,
written by the integrator.
.PP
The stager daemon,
\fBsam-stagerd\fR, is expected to cancel the stage
request on its worklist.  Only the inode and fseq can be used to find  
the stage request to be canceled.
.I stage_req
is a pointer to a tp_api
structure
into which information is placed regarding the offset, size, position, etc.
of the data file.
The contents of the structure pointed to by
.I stage_req
include the following members:
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft 3
.ta 9n 22n
offset_t  offset;        /\(** Offset from beginning of the file \(**/
offset_t  size;          /\(** Size of the file to stage \(**/
long long position;      /\(** The position field from the archive info in the inode \(**/
ino_t     inode;         /\(** Inode number from the file system \(**/
vsn_t     space;         /\(** VSN field from the archive information in the inode \(**/
equ_t     fseq;          /\(**  Equipment number of family set in the inode \(**/
char      media_type[2]; /\(**  2 character media type for the foreign media\(**/
 
.ft 1
.fi
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
.B offset
The offset from the beginning of the file for this stage request.
As the system is reading a "stage never" file, the file offset moves down 
the file.  For a normal stage of a file the stage offset is zero.
.TP
.B size
The size of the file to stage for this stage request.  During a "stage
never" request, this is the size the file system wants to deliver at this
time.  For a normal stage of a file the size is the size of the file.
.TP
.B position
The position field(s) from the archive information in the inode.
.TP
.B inode
The inode number from the file system.
.TP
.B vsn
The vsn field from the archive information in the inodes.
.TP
.B fseq
The equipment number of the family set for the inode.
.TP
.B media_type[2]
The two character media type for the foreign media.
.sh "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful initialization a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of 1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B usam_mig_cancel_stage_req(\|)
fails if the following is true:
.TP 20
.SB ECANCELED
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/migkit/mig_cd.c
The example Migration Toolkit program.
.TP 20
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mcf (5).
