.\" $Revision: 1.15 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH usam_mig_initialize 3 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
usam_mig_initialize \- Initializes the migration interface
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamut [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/mig.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int usam_mig_initialize(int " "stage_count" );
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B usam_mig_initialize(\|)
is the initialization routine for the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS Migration Toolkit.
It is called by the foreign media "device" to allow the interface to
initialize any local structs, threads, etc.
.PP
.I stage_count
is the maximum number of stage requests that may be outstanding at
one time.
Every stage request for a foreign media type is handed to the
stager daemon.  \%\fBsam-stagerd\fR(1M)
must be able to
handle this
.I stage_count
requests at one time.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon succesful initialization a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of 1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/migkit/mig_cd.c
The example Migration Toolkit program.
.TP 20
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sam-stagerd (1M).
.BR mcf (4).
