.\" $Revision: 1.7 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samioc 4 "30 Jun 2022"
.SH NAME
samioc \- Pseudo Device Driver for communication of kernel and userland daemons
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The pseudo driver, \fBsamioc\fR, provides only the ioctl interface and allows the communtication beetween SamFS (kernel) and the userland deamons sam-fsd, sam-amld, and so on. It is the entry point for SAMFS system calls.
.LP
The driver is loaded from samfs(4d) while sam_init.
.LP
The syscalls can be monitored with sam_trace
.SH ERRORS 
.TP 15
.SB EACCES
Permission denied.
.TP
.SB EBUSY
The device was opened exclusively by another thread.
.TP
.SB EFAULT
The argument was a bad address.
.TP
.SB EINVAL
Invalid argument.
.TP
.SB EIO\ \ 
An I/O error occurred.
.TP
.SB ENOTTY
This indicates that the device does not support the
requested ioctl function.
.TP
.SB ENXIO
During opening, the device did not exist.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BI /kernel/drv/64/samioc
32-bit driver
.TP
.BI /kernel/drv/samioc.conf  
Driver configuration file. (Should not be altered.)
.TP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR driver.conf(5),
.BR devfsadm(8),
.BR sam-amld(8),
.BR samtrace(8)
