.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_stat 3X "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_stat, sam_lstat \- Gets file status over a network connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamrpc -l nsl [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/stat.h"
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/samrpc.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_stat(const char *" "path" ,
.BI "struct sam_stat *" "buf" );
.LP
.BI "int sam_lstat(const char *" "path" ,
.BI "struct sam_stat *" "buf" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
These are the \%RPC-based versions of
.BR sam_stat (3)
and
.BR sam_lstat (3).
.PP
.BR sam_stat (3X)
and
.BR sam_lstat (3X)
get file status by sending a request to the Sun
StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS RPC server, \fBsam-rpcd\fR.
.PP
If the server machine is different from the local machine, \fIpath\fR must
be an absolute path.  If the server machine is the local machine, \fIpath\fR
may be an absolute path or relative to the user's current working directory.
.PP
A call to
.BR sam_initrpc (3X)
must be issued before these calls.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\fIerrno\fR
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.TP 20
.SB EDESTADDRREQ
.B sam_initrpc
was not successfully called, as required, before making this call.
.TP 20
.SB EINVAL
\fIpath\fR is not an absolute pathname and the server (SAMHOST) machine
is not the same as the local machine.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sam_lstat (3),
.BR sam_stat (3).
.PP
.BR sam_closerpc (3X),
.BR sam_initrpc (3X).
