.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_initrpc 3X "03 Dec 2001"
.SH NAME
sam_initrpc \- Performs RPC initialization for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS RPC API library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.BI "cc [ " "flag"
.BI " ... ] " "file"
.BI " ... -L/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib -lsamrpc -l nsl [ " "library" " ... ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/samrpc.h"
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int sam_initrpc(char *" "rpchost");
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam_initrpc()
is the initialization routine for the \fBlibsamrpc\fR library.  It finds
the RPC entry for the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS server
and creates an RPC
client handle.  In essence, this routine sets up the connection to the
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS host machine,
required for other API calls in the \fBlibsamrpc\fR library.
.PP
\fBrpchost\fR is the hostname of the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or
Sun \%SAM-QFS host.
If \fINULL\fR,
.B sam_initrpc(\|)
will check for an environment variable named \fISAMHOST\fR.  If such an
environment variable exists, its setting will be taken for the hostname of
the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS host, otherwise
the \%built-in default, \fBsamhost\fR, is used.
.PP
.B sam_initrpc(\|)
gets the RPC entry (program number) using the program name \fBsamfs\fR.
This information (the RPC program name and number), and the hostname, is
used to set up communication with the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS RPC API
server process, \fBsam-rpcd\fR, which runs on the
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
host machine.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
Upon successful completion a value of 0 is returned.
Otherwise, a value of \-1 is returned and
\f4errno\fP
is set to indicate the error.
.SH ERRORS
.PP
.B sam_initrpc(\|)
fails if one or more of the following are true:
.TP 20
.SB EADDRNOTAVAIL
No RPC entry for the program name \fBsamfs\fR could be found.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sam_closerpc (3X),
.BR sam_archive (3X),
.BR sam_release (3X),
.BR sam_stage (3X),
.BR sam_stat (3X).
