.\" $Revision: 1.15 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH archive_mark 1M "17 Dec 1996"
.SH NAME
archive_mark \- Mark file as archived 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/archive_mark
.BI \-c\fIn\fP
[
.B \-offset
.I n
]
[
.B \-v
]
.I rm_file
.I file
.PD
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamtp\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B archive_mark
marks
.I file 
as archived. This is done by
setting the file's archive information based on information stored in the
removable media file 
.I rm_file 
used to create the archive image of the file. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-c\fIn\fP
Assign archive copy \fIn\fP (where \fIn\fP is a number 1 to 4) to this archive.
.TP
.B \-offset \fIn\fP
Sets the file offset to the beginning of the data portion of this file
in the archive image.
The offset \fIn\fP is in bytes and the default is 0.
.TP
.B \-v
Selects verbose mode in which a message is printed at completion identifying
the media. 
.TP
.I rm_file
The name of the removable media file used to create the archive image of the file.
.TP
.I file
The name of the file to be marked as archived.
.SH NOTE
Files archived to optical disk must be written to a removable media file with the archive
recorded file name and be owned by the archive owner.
The default recorded file name is \fBSAM_ARCHIVE\fP and the owner is \fBsam_archive\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR request (1),
