.\" $Revision: 1.8 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH archiver.sh 1M "12 Jan 2004"
.na
.nh
.SH NAME
archiver.sh \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS archiver exception notification script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/archiver.sh
\fIprg_name\fR
\fIpid\fR
\fIseverity\fR
\fImsg_no\fR
\fImsg\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The archiver executes the
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/archiver.sh
script when it encounters abnormal
or exceptional events.  You can substitute a \%site-specific
version of this script by using the archiver's \fBnotify\fR
directive in the \fBarchiver.cmd\fR(4) file.
.PP
For all events, the
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/archiver.sh
script logs events to
.B syslog
using the
.B /usr/bin/logger
command.  In addition,
the 
\fBemerg\fR, \fBalert\fR, \fBcrit\fR, and \fBerr\fR
keywords generate email to the root account, echoing the message
string.
.SH OPTIONS
The archiver executes
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/archiver.sh
and any scripts defined by the user through the \fBnotify\fR directive
with the following arguments:
.TP 10
\fIprg_name\fR
The name of the program that is calling this script.
.TP
\fIpid\fR
The process ID of the program that is calling this script.
.TP
\fIseverity\fR
A keyword that identifies the severity and the
.B syslog
level of the event.  The keywords are as follows:
\fBemerg\fR, \fBalert\fR, \fBcrit\fR, \fBerr\fR, \fBwarning\fR,
\fBnotice\fR, \fBinfo\fR, and \fBdebug\fR.
.TP
\fImsg_no\fR
The message number as found in the message catalog.
.TP
\fImsg\fR
The text of the translated message string.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR archiver (1M),
.BR archiver.cmd (4)
