'\" t
." $Revision: 1.21 $ 
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems 
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH archive_audit 1M "09 Sep 2003"
.SH NAME
archive_audit \- Generate an archive audit 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/archive_audit
[
.BI \-f " audit_file"
] [
.B \-V
] [
.BI \-d
] [
.BI \-c " archive_copy_number"
]... 
.I root_path
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B archive_audit
generates an audit of all archived files and removable media files (excluding
archiver and stager removable media files, and removable media files created
for disaster recovery which have not yet been referenced)
in the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS directory
.I root_path
by media type and VSN.  
The audit results are written to the VSN audit file.
An optional summary of all archive VSNs is written to standard output. 
.sp
Note that archive_audit will not be able to distinguish removable media files
used by the stager daemon in filesystems which have been created in systems
prior to Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS 4.0 and upgraded, so these sizes will be counted in the totals.
Also, removable media files created by a user for disaster recovery purposes
may duplicate space on a volume assigned to an archive copy, in which case
the space will be accounted for twice.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10   
.BI \-c " archive_copy_number"
Only archive copies for the indicated \fIarchive_copy_number\fP will
be examined.  Multiple \fB-c\fP\fI archive_copy_number\fP options may
be given; then archive copies for \fIany\fP of the \fIarchive_copy_number\fPs
will be examined.
.TP 
.BI \-d 
Only damaged archive copies are listed in the VSN audit file.
.TP 
.BI \-f " audit_file"
The name of the VSN audit file.  If -f is not specified, or if
\fIaudit_file\fP is "-", then the output is written to standard out.
.B Archive_audit
appends to the \fIaudit_file\fP.
.TP
.B \-V
Verbose.  Write the optional summary to standard output.  Each file is
summarized in the following format:

.in +.5i
.ft CW
.nf
\fImedia VSN n \fPfiles, \fIs\fP bytes, \fId\fP damaged copies.
.fi
.ft R
.in -.5i  
.LP
Where
.I media
is the media type,
.I VSN
is the VSN,
.I n
is the number of files on that VSN, and
.I s
is the number of bytes of data archived on that VSN.
.I d
is the number of damaged archive copies on that VSN.
.SH VSN AUDIT FILE
The VSN audit file contains a 1-line entry for each section
on an archived file or removable media file. Each entry
has this information:
.br
.PP
.LP
.nf
.TS
tab (/) ;
l l l l l l l l l.
.vs -2
.ft 2
media/vsn/status/copy/section/position/size/file/seg_num
.vs +4
.TE
.fi
.in -.5i
.LP
The format for the line is
.br
"%s %s %s %d %d %llx.%llx %lld %s %d\\n".

.I media
is the archive media.

.I VSN
is the archive VSN.

.I status
is the archive copy status.
.I Status
is 4 dashes with 3 possible flags: S = Stale, 
r = rearchive, D = damaged.

.I copy
is the number (1..4) of the archive copy residing on that VSN.
or zero if the file is a removable media file,

.I section
is the section number (0..n),

.I position
is position and file offset.

.I size
is the size of the file/section.

.I file
is the path name of the archived file or the removable media file.

.I seg_num
is the segment number of the archived segment of the file.  \fIseg_num\fR
is 0 if it is a segmented file's index inode or if the entry is a directory or
a non-segmented file.  Data segments of a segmented file are numbered
sequentially beginning with 1.

.LP
The following is an example of the archive_audit line:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
lt\0DLT000\0----\01\00\04ffd.9fa5e\0169643\0/sam5/QT/rainbow.sgi\06
.fi
.ft
.PP
.RE
.LP
The first two fields indicate the media type and the volume serial
name on which the archive copy or removable media file resides.
.ft 1
.LP 
The next field consists of four dashes as follows:
.RS
.LP
.PD 0
Dash 0 - Stale or active entry
.RS
.TP 4
.B S
the archive copy is stale. This means the file was modified and this
archive copy is for a previous version of the file.
.TP
.B \-
the archive copy is active and valid.
.RE
.LP
Dash 1 - Archive status
.RS
.TP 4
.B r
The archiver will rearchive this copy.
.TP 4
.B \-
This archive copy will not be rearchived.
.RE
.LP
Dash 3 - Damaged or undamaged status
.RS
.TP 4
.B D
the archive copy is damaged.
This archive copy will not be staged.
.TP
.B \-
the archive copy is not damaged. It is a candidate for staging.
.RE
.RE
.PD
.LP
The next field shows copy number, 1..4, for the archive copy or
zero for the removable media file.
.LP
The next field shows section number, 0..n, for a multi-volume 
archive file or removable media file.
.LP
The first hex number, 4ffd, is the position of the beginning of the 
archive file on the media. The second hex number, 9fa5e, is the file byte
offset divided by 512 
of this copy on the archive file.
For example, 1 means this is the first file on the archive file
because it is offset by 512 bytes, which is the length of the tar header.
.LP
The next field shows section size (file size if only 1 section) for
an archive file or the file size for a removable media file.
.LP
The eighth field is the name of the archive file or removable media file.
.LP
The last field shows the number of the archived file's segment.  This field
is 0 if the archive copy is of the segmented file's index inode or if the
archived file is not segmented.
.ft 1
.LP
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 10
.B 0
Audit completed successfully.
.TP
.B 6
Nonfatal: An issue encountered with rootpath's filename or the path.
.TP
.B 7
Nonfatal: Closing of a subdirectory under the rootpath failed.
.TP
.B 10
Nonfatal: sam_segment_vsn_stat for a file failed.
.TP
.B 11
Nonfatal: sam_vsn_stat for a file failed.
.TP
.B 12
Nonfatal: sam_readrminfo for a file failed.
.TP
.B 13
Nonfatal: idstat for a file failed.
.TP
.B 14
Nonfatal: getdent for a directory failed.
.TP
.B 15
Nonfatal: Invalid segment size for a file encountered.
.TP 10
.B 30
Fatal: Command line argument errors.
.TP
.B 31
Fatal: Audit file issues were encountered.
.TP
.B 32
Fatal: An issue with the root path or a subdirectory was encountered.
.TP
.B 35
Fatal: Malloc errors terminated \fBarchive_audit\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sam-archiverd (1M),
.BR mcf (4)
