.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH auditslot 1M "3 Apr 2000"
.SH NAME
auditslot \- Audit slots in a robot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/auditslot
[
.B \-e
]
.IR eq : slot [: partition ]
[
.IR eq : slot [: partition ]...]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B auditslot
will send a request to the robot specified by the equipment identifier
\fIeq\fP
to audit the media in the specified
\fIslot\fP.
The \fIslot\fPs must be in use and occupied (that is, the media cannot be 
mounted in a drive).
If \fIslot\fP contains a two-sided optical cartridge, then both sides will
be audited.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-e
If \fIslot\fP is tape, skip to EOD and update space available. 
\fBCaution:\fP Skip to EOD is not interruptible and 
under certain conditions can take hours to complete.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun StorEdge
QFS environments
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR export (1M),
.BR import (1M),
.BR move (1M),
.BR mcf (4),
.BR sam-robotsd (1M)
