'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.30 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH chmed 1M "02 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
chmed \- Set or clear library catalog flags and values
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/chmed
.I +flags
.I specifier
.LP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/chmed
.I -flags
.I specifier
.LP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/chmed
.B -capacity 
.I capacity
.I specifier
.LP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/chmed
.B -space 
.I space
.I specifier
.LP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/chmed
.B -time 
.I time
.I specifier
.LP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/chmed
.B -count
.I count
.I specifier
.LP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/chmed
.B -vsn
.I vsn
.I specifier
.LP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/chmed
.B -mtype
.I media
.I specifier
.LP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/chmed
.B -I
.I information
.I specifier
.LP
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH WARNING
.B chmed
sets or clears flags and values in a library catalog entry.  These
values are critical to the operation of Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
and Sun \%SAM-QFS
environments and should be modified
by administrators only in unusual circumstances.    Administrators
should exercise caution in using this powerful command, as there is no
checking to ensure that the catalog remains consistent.
.SH ARGUMENTS
These arguments are used in various combinations by the different forms of 
the command.
.LP
.I capacity
is the total number of bytes that the volume can contain.
The capacity may be specified with 'k', 'M', 'G', 'T', 'P', and 'E' multipliers.
e.g. 2.43G or 0.7G.
.LP
The updated capacity is interpreted in units of 1024k blocks.
For example, if '1023' is specified, a value of 0k capacity is displayed.
If '1023k' is specified, the updated capacity is displayed as 1023k.
.LP
The space may also be specified in octal or hexadecimal using '0' or '0x'
respectively. However, fractional values and multipliers are not allowed
when using octal or hexadecimal representation.  For example, '0400000'
or '0x800000'.
.LP
.I count 
is the number of times a volume has been mounted since import, or
the number of times a cleaning cartridge may be mounted before it is
considered exhausted.
.LP
.I eq
gives the equipment number (as defined in the mcf file) for the 
robot being operated on.
.LP
.I flags
is a string of one or more of the following case-sensitive characters.
Each character specifies one flag in the catalog entry.  The characters
are the same as the flags that are shown in the "flags" column of the robot VSN
catalog:
.RS
.LP
.nf
.TS
tab (%) ;
 l l .
A%needs audit
C%slot contains cleaning cartridge
E%volume is bad or expired cleaning media
N%volume is not in SAM format 
R%volume is read-only (software flag)
U%volume is unavailable
W%volume is physically write-protected
X%slot is an export slot
b%volume has a bar code
c%volume is scheduled for recycling
f%volume found full or foul by archiver
d%volume has a duplicate vsn
l%volume is labeled
o%slot is occupied
p%high priority volume
.TE
.fi
.RE
.LP
NOTE: The 
.I f
flag can mean that the volume is 100% full or that there is a problem with the tape. This can
happen when a new tape is imported into the library with a partial label,
or with a tape that does not have an EOD.
.LP
.I I
is an information field to hold information on a volume. A
maximum of 128 characters is allowed and these characters must be enclosed
in quotation marks. An example is:
.LP
"Warehouse A, room 310, shelf 3"
.LP
.I media
specifies the media type.  Valid values include (among others) \fBmo\fP
and \fBlt\fP, for magneto-optical and DLT tape, respectively.   See
.BR mcf (4)
for the complete list of media types supported by
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
.LP
.I space
is the total number of bytes remaining to be written on the volume.
The space may be specified with 'k', 'M', 'G', 'T', 'P', and 'E' multipliers.
e.g. 200.5M or 0.2005G.
.LP
The updated space is interpreted in units of 1024k blocks.
For example, if '1023' is specified, a value of 0k space is displayed.
If '1023k' is specified, the updated space is displayed as 1023k.
.LP
The space may also be specified in octal or hexadecimal using '0' or '0x'
respectively. However, fractional values and multipliers are not allowed
when using octal or hexadecimal representation.  For example, '0400000'
or '0x800000'.
.LP
.I specifier
identifies the volume to be affected by the \fBchmed\fP command,
in one of two forms: \fImedia_type.vsn\fP or \fIeq:slot[:partition]\fP. 
.LP
.I time
is the time the volume was last mounted in a drive.  Several
formats are allowed for \fItime\fP.  Examples are:
.LP
"2000-09-19";
"2000-07-04 20:31";  23:05;  "Mar 23";
"Mar 23 1994"; "Mar 23 1994 23:05"; "23 Mar"; "23 Mar 1994"; "23 Mar
1994 23:05".
.LP
Month names may be abbreviated or spelled out in full.
Time-of-day is given in 24-hour format.  Years must use all four
digits.  If the \fItime\fP contains blanks, the entire time must be
enclosed in quotation marks.
.LP
.I vsn
gives the VSN of the volume to be affected.  
.SH DESCRIPTION
The first form sets (\fI+flags\fP) and the second clears (\fI-flags\fP) the 
flags for for the given volume.
.LP
.LP
The third and fourth forms set the capacity and space, respectively,
for the given volume.  
.LP
The fifth form sets the last-mounted time for the volume.
.LP
The sixth form sets the mount-count value for the volume.
.LP
The final two forms sets the media type and vsn, respectively,
for the given volume.  
.LP
.SH NON-SAM MEDIA
.B chmed
can be used to modify existing catalog entries so that they denote
\%so-called \%non-SAM media.  \%Non-SAM media are those that are
in \%non-SAM-FS format.  The migration toolkit (SAMmigkit) provides
hooks for the site
to use to enable Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file
systems to stage 
(and optionally \%re-archive) data from 
the \%non-SAM media.
.PP
When a \%non-SAM volume is imported to a library, it probably will not
be found to have an \%ANSI-standard label.   The volume's VSN will show as
\fBnolabel\fR.  The following 
.B chmed
commands can be used to assign a media type, VSN, and \%non-SAM status
to the volume (assuming it is in slot 5 of equipment 30):
.ft CO
.nf

      chmed -mtype lt 30:5
      chmed -vsn TAPE1 30:5
      chmed +N 30:5

.fi
.ft
.PP
If you have many \%non-SAM cartridges, you can use \fBbuild_cat\fR
to bulk load a catalog.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.ft CO
.nf

      chmed -RW lt.TAPE0
      chmed +c lt.CYCLE
      chmed -capacity 19.5G lt.TAPE0
      chmed -space 8.2G lt.TAPE0
      chmed -time "Mar 23 10:15" lt.TAPE0
      chmed -time "Nov 28 1991 10:15" lt.TAPE0
      chmed -vsn TAPE1 30:5

.fi
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR build_cat (1M),
.BR mcf (5),
.BR sam-recycler (1M),
.BR samu (1M)
