'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH clri 1M "28 Aug 1998"
.SH NAME
clri \- clear inode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B clri
[
.BI \-F " samfs"
]
[
.B \-V
]
.I mount-point i-number
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamtp\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B clri 
writes zeroes on the inode numbered
.I i-number
on the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file
system currently mounted on
.IR mount-point .
.I i-number 
can be expressed as either a decimal integer, an octal integer 
prefixed with a zero, or a hexidecimal integer prefixed with \fB0x\fR.
.LP
.B clri
must be run as root.  Once you've cleared all the inodes you wish
for a filesystem, you'll need to unmount and remount the filesystem to
flush the inode cache to disk.  Finally, if there are any directory
entries which point at the newly-cleared inodes, those directory entries
will be cleared automatically by the filesytem the first time they
are referenced.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
Here's an example of using clri:

     Mount the filesystem

bilbo# mount /sam1                            

     Find out the inode number which must be cleared.  Here, let's say
     we would like to clear "file0."

bilbo# cd /sam1/test
bilbo# sls -i
   169 file0     166 file3     339 file5      60 file7     160 file9
   342 file2      63 file4     163 file6     336 file8

      Ok, now we have its inode: 169.  Let's clear it!

bilbo# /opt/SUNWsamfs/tools/clri /sam1 169

      But, look!  It's still there!  Sure looks weird, though...

bilbo# sls -l file0
----------   0 root     root             0 Dec 31  1969 file0

      Even "sync" doesn't help...

bilbo# sync
bilbo# sls -l file0
----------   0 root     root             0 Dec 31  1969 file0

      ...until we unmount and remount the filesystem.

bilbo# cd /
bilbo# umount /sam1
bilbo# mount /sam1
bilbo# cd /sam1/test

      This is actually what clears the directory entry:

bilbo# ls -l file0
file0: No such file or directory

      And, now it's gone!

bilbo# ls -l
bilbo 64
-rw-rw----   1 root     other        218 Aug 19 16:41 file2
-rw-rw----   1 root     other        206 Aug 19 16:41 file3
-rw-rw----   1 root     other        257 Aug 19 16:41 file4
-rw-rw----   1 root     other        179 Aug 19 16:41 file5
-rw-rw----   1 root     other        230 Aug 19 16:41 file6
-rw-rw----   1 root     other        192 Aug 19 16:41 file7
-rw-rw----   1 root     other        212 Aug 19 16:41 file8
-rw-rw----   1 root     other        240 Aug 19 16:41 file9
