." $Revision: 1.18 $ 
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems 
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH damage 1M  "08 Jan 2003"
.SH NAME
damage \- Marks archive entries as damaged
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/damage\fR
\%[\fB\-a\fR]
\%\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR
\%[\fB\-f\fR]
\%[\fB\-m\ \fImedia_type\fR [\fB\-v\ \fIvsn\fR]]
\%[\fB\-M\fR]
\%[\fB\-o\fR]
\fIfilename\fR \&.\&.\&.
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/damage\fR
\%[\fB\-a\fR]
\%[\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR]
\%[\fB\-f\fR]
\%\fB\-m\ \fImedia_type\fR [\fB\-v\ \fIvsn\fR]
\%[\fB\-M\fR]
\%[\fB\-o\fR]
\fIfilename\fR \&.\&.\&.
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/damage\fR
\%[\fB\-a\fR]
\%\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR
\%[\fB\-f\fR]
\%[\fB\-m\ \fImedia_type\fR [\fB\-v\ \fIvsn\fR]]
\%[\fB\-M\fR]
\%[\fB\-o\fR]
\fB\-r\ \fIdirname\fR \&.\&.\&.
\fIfilename\fR \&.\&.\&.
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/damage\fR
\%[\fB\-a\fR]
\%[\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR]
\%[\fB\-f\fR]
\%\fB\-m\ \fImedia_type\fR [\fB\-v\ \fIvsn\fR]
\%[\fB\-M\fR]
\%[\fB\-o\fR]
\fB\-r\ \fIdirname\fR \&.\&.\&.
\fIfilename\fR \&.\&.\&.
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamtp\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBdamage\fR command marks archive copies as damaged.
The command marks copies of one
or more files or directories as damaged based on the
archive copy number and/or the media type and VSN specified.
There are several ways to mark one or more archive copies
as damaged.  These ways are as follows:
.TP 3
\(bu
By copy number
.TP
\(bu
By copy number, media type, and VSN
.TP
\(bu
By copy number and media type
.TP
\(bu
By media type
.TP
\(bu
By media type and VSN
.PP
If a fatal error is detected when staging an archive copy,
that archive copy is marked as damaged.
An archive copy that is damaged is not selected for staging.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 10
\%\fB\-a\fR
Rearchives the damaged copy.
.TP
\%\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR
Marks the specified archive copy number as damaged.
If one or more \fB\-c\fR options are 
are specified, only those archive copies (copies 1, 2, 3, or 4)
are marked as damaged.
Specify \fB1\fR, \fB2\fR, \fB3\fR, or \fB4\fR for \fIcopy_no\fR.
Either a \fB\-c\fR or a \fB\-m\fR option must be specified.
.TP
\%\fB\-f\fR
Suppresses errors.
.TP
\%\fB\-m\ \fImedia_type\fR
Marks all copies from the specified \fImedia_type\fR as damaged.
For the list of possible \fImedia_type\fR specifications, see the
\fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
Either a \fB\-c\fR or a \fB\-m\fR option must be specified.
If you specify a \fB\-m\fR option, you can also specify
a \fB\-v\fR option.
.TP
\%\fB\-M\fR
Marks only metadata as damaged.
This includes directories, the segment index,
and \%removable-media files.
Regular files are not marked as damaged.
If you are marking a directory as damaged, you must specify
the \%\fB-M\fR option.
.TP
\%\fB\-o\fR
Specifies that the file must be online before it is marked as damaged.
If the file is offline, the \fBdamage\fR command
stages the file to disk before deleting any entries.
.TP
\%\fB\-r\ \fIdirname\fR \&.\&.\&.
Recursively marks one or more
specified \fIdirname\fRs and subdirectories as damaged.
The archive entries of files in the directories and subdirectories
are marked as damaged.
.TP
\%\fB\-v\ \fIvsn\fR
Marks the archive copies on \fIvsn\fR as damaged.
For \fIvsn\fR, specify a volume serial name (VSN).
If you specify a \fB\-v\fR option, you must also specify
a \fB\-m\fR option.
.TP
\fIfilename\fR \&.\&.\&.
Marks the archive copies for one or more specified \fIfilename\fR
arguments as damaged.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmcf\fR(4).
