.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH dump_log 1M "23 Feb 2003"
.SH NAME
dump_log \- Dumps the contents of the fifo and ioctl log buffers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/dump_log
[ -f ]
[ -p
.I fifo_log
]
[ -i
.I ioctl_log
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B dump_log
dumps the contents of the fifo and ioctl log buffers.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.I -f
This causes dump_log to run continuously;  the default is to dump
the circular buffer once and then terminate.
.TP
.I fifo_log
The log buffer of fifo commands sent by the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS 
file system to the \%\fBsam-amld\fR daemon.
If none is specified the
default is to use \fB/var/adm/log/fs_fifo_log\fR.
.TP
.I ioctl_log
The log buffer of the ioctl daemon commands sent to
the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system.
If none is specified the default is to
use \fB/var/adm/log/fs_ioctl_log\fR.
.TP
.SH NOTE
You must have logging of the fifo and ioctl commands enabled by setting the 
.nf
.sp
     debug   logging 
.sp
.fi
option in the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/defaults.conf\fR file.
.B dump_log
is not intended for general use, and is provided as
a utility to supply Sun Microsystems
analysts with troubleshooting information when necessary.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/amld/fs_fifo_log
fifo buffer used by Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems
.TP 20
.B /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/amld/fs_ioctl_log
ioctl buffer used by Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems

