." $Revision: 1.7 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH fsmadm 1M  "17 Apr 2008"
.SH NAME
fsmadm \- Starts or stops the \fBfsmgmtd\fR daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\%\fBfsmadm\fR
\fIaction\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBfsmadm\fR command starts up or shuts down the \fBfsmgmtd\fR
daemon.  You can also use this command to get the status of the daemon
and to add clients that can securely access this Sun StorEdge QFS server.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fBadd\fR \fIhost1[.domain1] [host2[.domain2]] ...\fR
Adds the hosts (host1, host2, ...) to a configuration file such
that these hosts can remotely manage the local Sun StorEdge QFS server.
If the host is on a different domain, specify the domain
(host-name.domain-name).  Requests from other hosts will be
refused by the File System Manager daemon.
.TP
\fBlist\fR
This will list the hosts that can currently manage the local
Sun StorEdge QFS server.  Hosts not listed will not be able to
manage the local Sun StorEdge QFS server via the File System Manager.
.TP
\fBremove\fR \fIhost1 [host2] ...\fR
Removes the hosts (host1, host2, ...) from a configuration file such
that these hosts can no longer manage the local Sun StorEdge QFS server
via the File System Manager.
.TP
\fBstart\fR
Starts the \%File System Manager daemon.
Does not configure the daemon to automatically restart.
Does not modify the \fB/etc/inittab\fR file.
.TP
\fBstop\fR
Stops the \%File System Manager daemon.
Does not modify \fB/etc/inittab\fR file.
.TP
\fBrestart\fR
Restarts the \%File System Manager daemon.
Does not modify \fB/etc/inittab\fR file.
.TP
\fBconfig\fR \fIarg\fR
Configures the automatic restart feature for the \%File System Manager daemon.
.sp
Specify one of the following for \fIarg\fR:
.RS 10
.TP 10
\fIarg\fR
\fBAction\fR
.TP
\%\fB-n\fR
Stops the \%File System Manager daemon.
The automatic restart feature is controlled using the
service management facility (smf(5)). See smf(5) for more information.
.TP
\%\fB-a\fR
Starts the \%File System Manager daemon.
Configures \fBinit\fR to restart the daemon every time it dies.
The automatic restart feature is controlled using the
service management facility (smf(5)). See smf(5) for more information.
.RE
.TP
\fBstatus\fR
Displays version and configuration information for the \%File System
Manager daemon if the \%File System Manager daemon is running and if
automatic restart is enabled.
.SH FILES
This command resides in the following location:
.TP 30
\fBSoftware and Package\fR
\fBLocation\fR
.TP
Sun StorEdge QFS (\fBSUNWqfs\fR)
\fB/opt/SUNWqfs/sbin/fsmadm\fR
.TP
Sun StorEdge \%SAM (\fBSUNWsamfs\fR)
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/fsmadm\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBinit\fR(1M),
\%\fBfsmgmtd\fR(1M).

