." $Revision: 1.8 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH fsmgr_setup 1M "27 Jul 2004"
.SH NAME
fsmgr_setup \- Installs, removes, and upgrades the File System Manager software
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfsmgr_setup\fR
\%[\fB-h\fR]
\%[\fB-u\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBfsmgr_setup\fR script installs, removes, and upgrades
the File System Manager software distributed with the Sun StorEdge QFS and 
Sun StorEdge SAM software packages. The File System Manager is
a graphical user interface
tool that allows you to configure a Sun StorEdge QFS file system or
a \%SAM-QFS file system with storage and archive management
capabilities.
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWfsmgr\fR
.SH OPTIONS
This command supports the following options:
.TP 10
\fBOption\fR
\fBAction\fR
.TP
\%\fB-h\fR
Displays a help message.
.TP
\%\fB-u\fR
Removes the File System Manager software and the other supporting
applications.  The other supporting applications are as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 3
\(bu
TomCat
.TP
\(bu
JRE
.TP
\(bu
Sun ONE Application Framework
.TP
\(bu
Java Web Console
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP 6
\fBCode\fR
\fBMessage\fR
.TP
0
Install successfully performed
.TP
1
Syntax error
.TP
2
Script perform by \%non-superuser
.TP
3
Abort by user
.TP
4
Failed to create log file
.TP
5
Failed to create /tmp directory
.TP
6
Failed to create package admin file
.TP
7
Unsupported platform
.TP
20
Command not issued in the designated CDROM location
.TP
21
Deprecated (Do not use)
.TP
22
Deprecated (Do not use)
.TP
23
Unsupported OS detected
.TP
24
Insufficient space in / (root) directory
.TP
25
Insufficient space in /tmp directory
.TP
26
Failed to unzip File_System_Manager_2.x.zip
.TP
27
Failed to untar Java Web Console JAR file
.TP
28
Failed to install SUNWfsmgrr
.TP
29
Failed to install SUNWfsmgru
.TP
30
Newer version of File System Manager detected
.TP
31
Same version of File System Manager detected
.TP
50
Failed to remove SUNWfsmgrr
.TP
51
Failed to remove SUNWfsmgru
.TP
100
Failed to install Java Web Console
.SH FILES
The \fBfsmgr_setup\fR script generates a log
file during the installation process.  If the installation
is unsuccessful, you can use this file to debug your
problem or you can send the file to your authorized service provider
for analysis.
.PP
The script writes the log file to the following location:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
/var/tmp/fsmgr.setup.log.\fIMM.dd.YYYY.HH:mm\fR
.fi
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
\fISun StorEdge QFS Installation and
Configuration Guide\fR

