." $Revision: 1.5 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH fsmgr 1M  "27 Apr 2005"
.SH NAME
fsmgr \- Configures tracing for the File System Manager and starts or 
stops the File System Manager portal agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
\%\fBfsmgr\fR
\fIaction\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWfsmgr\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBfsmgr\fR command changes the trace level of File System Manager 
and starts or stops the File System Manager portal agent.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fBtrace\fR [ \fIlevel\fR ]
Traces the File System Manager execution.
If \fIlevel\fR is not specified, it displays the current trace level.
.sp
You can specify zero or more of the following for \fIlevel\fR:
.RS 10
.TP
\fB1\fR
Traces important messages only.
.TP
\fB2\fR
Traces moderately important messages, including messages
in trace level 1.
.TP
\fB3\fR
Traces all messages.
.TP
\fBoff\fR
Turns off tracing.
.RE
.TP
\fBagent\fR [ \fIactions\fR ]
Manages the File System Manager portal agent.
.RS 10
.TP
\fBstart\fR
Starts the File System Manger portal agent. Does not 
configure the agent to auto-restart.
.TP
\fBstop\fR
Stops the File System Manager portal agent.
.TP
\fBrestart\fR
Restarts the File System Manager portal agent.
.TP
\fBconfig -a\fR
Starts the File System Manager portal agent.
Auto-restarts the agent every time it dies.
.TP
\fBconfig -n\fR
Stops the File System Manager portal agent.
Disables the auto-restart feature.
.RE
.PP
NOTE: In Solaris 9 the portal agent auto-restart capability
is managed using /etc/inittab. In Solaris 10 it is managed
using the service management facility (smf(5)). See smf(5)
for more information.
.SH FILES
This command resides in the following location:
.TP 30
\fBSoftware and Package\fR
\fBLocation\fR
.TP
\%File System Manager (\fBSUNWfsmgr\fR)
\fB/opt/SUNWfsmgr/bin/fsmgr\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBinit\fR(1M),
\%\fBfsmgmtd\fR(1M).

