.\" $Revision: 1.1 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH HAStoragePlus_samfs 1M "27 Jan 2009"
.SH NAME
HAStoragePlus_samfs - Obtains the constituent components of a family
set or mount point.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B HAStoragePlus_samfs family_set|mount_point
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B HAStoragePlus_samfs
is a script to obtain the constituent components
of a single SAM-QFS family set or mount point.  It outputs the
constituent components as a comma separated list.
.LP
The
.B HAStoragePlus_samfs
command must be run as root.
.SH OPTIONS
None.
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CO
.nf
# HAStoragePlus_samfs /samfs1
.fi
.ft

