.\" $Revision: 1.20 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH load_notify.sh 1M "14 JAN 2004"
.SH NAME
load_notify.sh \- Sends email when a volume needs to be imported or loaded
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/load_notify.sh\fR
\fIprg_name\fR
\fIpid\fR
\fIlog_level\fR
\fImsg_no\fR
\fIvsn\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/load_notify.sh\fR
script is called by the appropriate \%media-changer daemon
when a requested volume is not in a library, is
not marked unavailable, and the \fBattended\fR state is set
to \fByes\fR.
Appropriate \%media-changer daemons
include \%\fBsam-genericd\fR, \%\fBsam-stkd\fR,
and so on.  For more information on the \%media-changer daemons,
see the \%\fBsam-robotsd\fR(1M) man page.
.PP
By default, this script sends email to \fBroot\fR
with the following message:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS needs VSN vsnxxx manually
loaded or imported.  
Check preview display.
.fi
.ft
.PP
To enable this feature,
copy \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/load_notify.sh\fR
to \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/load_notify.sh\fR and 
modify it to take the desired action for your installation.
.SH OPTIONS
This script accepts the following arguments:
.TP 10
\fIprg_name\fR
The name of the program that is calling this script.
.TP
\fIpid\fR
The process ID of the program that is calling this script.
.TP
\fIlog_level\fR
Log priority level.
An integer number such
that \fB0\fR\ \(<=\ \fIlog_level\fR\ \(<=\ \fB7\fR.
\fB0\fR is highest priority, and \fB7\fR is lowest priority.
.TP
\fImsg_no\fR
The message number as found in the message catalog.
.TP
\fIvsn\fR
The volume serial name (VSN) identifier of
the volume that needs to be imported or loaded.
.SH FILES
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/load_notify.sh\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsam-fsd\fR(1M),
\fBsam-robotsd\fR(1M),
\fBsamset\fR(1M).
