.\" $Revision: 1.15 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH load 1M "29 Jun 2000"
.SH NAME
samload, load \- Loads media into a device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samload
[
.B \-w
]
.IR eq : slot [: partition ]
[
.I deq
]

.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samload
[
.B \-w
]
.IR mediatype . vsn
[
.I deq
]

.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/load
[
.B \-w
]
.IR eq : slot [: partition ]
[
.I deq
]

.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/load
[
.B \-w
]
.IR mediatype . vsn
[
.I deq
]

.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B load
requests that the volume specified by \fIeq\fP:\fIslot\fP[:\fIpartition\fP] or
\fImediatype\fP.\fIvsn\fP  be loaded
into device \fIdeq\fP.  The device specified by \fIdeq\fP must be 
a removeable media drive, be
in the "unavailable" state (see
.BR set_state (1M))
and be controlled by
a media changer.  
If \fIdeq\fP already has a volume loaded, it is unloaded and
the volume is put away before the new volume is loaded.
If \fIdeq\fP is not specified, then
the volume is loaded into an available drive in the media changer \fIeq\fP.
The Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system
choses the drive that the volume is loaded into.
.PP
Note: Loading media used by a
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system
for archiving could result
in the loss of the data contained on that media.  Sun Microsystems strongly
recommends that archive media \fBNOT\fP be loaded in this manner.
.LP
The load and samload commands are identical; samload is provided as
an alternative to avoid conflict with the Tcl command of the same name.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-w
.B load
will wait for the operation to complete before terminating.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR unload (1M),
.BR set_state (1M),
.BR mcf (4),
.BR sam-robotsd (1M)
