.\" $Revision: 1.10 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH mccfg 1M "24 Feb 2003"
.SH NAME
mccfg \- Media Changer Configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/tools/mccfg
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBmccfg\fR command is a \%two-part Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS media
changer and tape drive installation configuration script.
.PP
The first part configures \fB/kernel/drv/samst.conf\fR lun 0 fc-fabric media
changers.
.PP
The second part configures \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fR for both parallel and
fc-fabric SCSI media changers, media changer installed tape drives, and 
standalone tape drives.  Media changer installed tape drives are put in
the required \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fR ascending order for proper
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS 
operation. A historian is also be added to the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fR.
Missing device information in either
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/inquiry.conf\fR or \fB/kernel/drv/st.conf\fR
produces a warning.
.PP
Multipath devices are supported where the first path seen is used in the
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fR configuration.
.SH LIMITATIONS 
\%Network-attached media changer installed tape drives are configured as
standalone tape drives.  The user must create
the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fR
virtual library entry and change the standalone tape drive's family set
to that of the virtual library's.
.PP
Parallel \%SCSI-2 media changer and installed tape drives need to be on the
same SCSI bus for automatic configuration.  However, a single bus is not a
requirement of Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, and better performance is
achieved with multiple buses.
.PP
A media changer which is lun 1 fc-fabric WWN must be manually
\fB/kernel/drv/samst.conf\fR configured because of \fBcfgadm\fR
and \fBluxadm\fR limitations.
.PP
For automatic configuration to work, all removable media equipment must be
able to be opened and respond to a USCSI commands.
.SH FILES
.TP 10
\fBmcf\fR
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.SH NOTES
Run \fBsamd config\fR for \fBmccfg\fR changes to take effect. 
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBinquiry.conf\fR(4),
\fBmcf\fR(4).
.PP
\fBhistorian\fR(7),
\fBsamst\fR(7).
.PP
\fBst\fR(7D).
.PP
