.\" $Revision: 1.99 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH mount_samfs 1M "09 May 2008"
.SH NAME
mount_samfs \- Mounts a Sun StorEdge QFS or \%SAM-QFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmount\fR
\fB\-F\ samfs\fR
[\fIgeneric_options\fR]
[\fB\-o\ \fIFSType_specific_options\fR]
\fIspecial\fR |\0 \fImount_point\fR
.PP
\fBmount\fR
\fB\-F\ samfs\fR
[\fIgeneric_options\fR]
[\fB\-o\ \fIFSType_specific_options\fR]
\fIspecial\fR
\fImount_point\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBmount\fR command attaches
a file system to
the file
system hierarchy at the specified \fImount_point\fR,
which is the path name of a directory.
This man page describes how to mount a Sun StorEdge QFS
or \%SAM-QFS file system, and it explains the unique options
that can be used when mounting these file systems.
.PP
If the first form of the command is used, which specifies either
a \fIspecial\fR or a \fImount_point\fR but not both,
the \fBmount\fR command searches the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file
and fills in missing arguments, including
the \fIFSType_specific_options\fR.
The \fBmount\fR(1M) command also searches
the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/samfs.cmd\fR file for mount options.
.PP
For more information on the \fBmount\fR(1M) command,
see the \fBmount\fR(1M) man page.
For more information on the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/samfs.cmd\fR file,
see the \fBsamfs.cmd\fR(4) man page.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
\fB\-F\ samfs\fR
Specifies that the file system being mounted is of type \fBsamfs\fR.
This is a required option if you are mounting a Sun StorEdge QFS
or a \%SAM-QFS file system.  These file systems are all
type \fBsamfs\fR.
.TP
\fIgeneric_options\fR
One or more generic Solaris file system options.  For a list of
possible \fIgeneric_options\fR, see the \fBmount\fR(1M) man page.
.TP
\fB\-o\ \%\fIFSType_specific_options\fR
A list of mount options specific to file systems of type \fBsamfs\fR.
If specifying multiple options, separate each option with a comma
and no intervening spaces.
For the list of possible \%\fB\-o\ \%\fIFSType_specific_options\fR,
see one or more of the following headings on this man page:
.RS 10
.TP 3
\(bu
Miscellaneous Tuning Options
.TP
\(bu
I/O Options
.TP 3
\(bu
Storage and Archive Management Options
.TP
\(bu
Shared File System Options
.TP
\(bu
Multireader File System Options
.TP
\(bu
Sun StorEdge QFS and \%SAM-QFS Options
.RE
.PP
.RS 10
If no \fIFSType_specific_options\fR are specified, the
the file system is mounted as a read/write file system.
.PP
If invalid options are specified, a warning message
is generated and the invalid options are disregarded.
.PP
NOTE: If running the Sun StorEdge QFS software on a Linux
client, the available mount options are very limited. The
following mount options are the ONLY ones available on a
Linux client system: rw, ro, retry, shared, rdlease, wrlease,
aplease, minallocsz, maxallocsz, min_pool, meta_timeo, noauto,
and auto.
.PP
The noauto and auto options are only recognized within the
\fB/etc/fstab\fR file and min_pool only in the \fBsamfs.cmd\fR file.
The maximum value for meta_timeo is 60.
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
\fIspecial\fR
The Family Set Name from the Sun StorEdge QFS
 or \%SAM-QFS master configuration file (\fBmcf\fR).
For more information on this file, see the
\fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.TP
\fImount_point\fR
The path name or directory at which the file system is to be mounted.
If the \fImount_point\fR
has any contents prior to the \fBmount\fR
operation, these are hidden until the file system is unmounted.
.SH MISCELLANEOUS OPTIONS
The following options can be used when mounting a Sun StorEdge QFS
or \%SAM-QFS file system.
These options can affect file system features and system performance.
.TP 10
\fBnosam\fR |\0 \fBsam\fR
The \fBnosam\fR option mounts a
\%SAM-QFS file system, but only the file system
functionality is enabled.  The archiving, releasing, and
staging functionality is disabled.  When a file system
is mounted with this option, the file system
returns \fBENOSPC\fR when it reaches 100% capacity.
.sp
Note that mounting a file system with the \fBnosam\fR
option offers no data protection for newly created files
or for previously archived files that have been modified.
The default is \fBsam\fR.
.TP 10
\fBnoarscan\fR |\0 \fBarscan\fR
The \fBnoarscan\fR option disables file system scans,
typically performed by the \fBsam-arfind\fR daemon, for
finding archive candidates on a mounted file system.
This mount option can be useful for file systems in which
new files are no longer being created yet staging and
releasing are still desired.
The default is \fBarscan\fR.
.TP 10
\fBnosuid\fR
Mounts the file system with \fBsetuid\fR execution disallowed.
By default, the file system mounts with \fBsetuid\fR execution allowed.
.TP 10
\fBnogfsid\fR |\0 \fBgfsid\fR
The \fBnogfsid\fR option disables the setting of a global file system id,
and uses the historical setting of the root slice device type paired
with the file system type.
The \fBgfsid\fR option enables the setting of a global file system id,
and uses the file system id that is stored in the superblock, which
consists of the file system creation time paired with the hostid.
The default is \fBgfsid\fR.
.TP 10
\fBnocdevid\fR |\0 \fBcdevid\fR
The \fBnocdevid\fR option disables the setting of a global file system
device id, and uses the historical setting of the root slice device type.
The \fBcdevid\fR option enables the setting of a global file system
device id that consists of the samioc module major number paired with
the file system equipment number as specified in the mcf(4) file.
The default is \fBcdevid\fR.
.TP 10
\fBnotrace\fR |\0 \fBtrace\fR
The \fBnotrace\fR option disables file system tracing.
The \fBtrace\fR option enables file system tracing.
The default is \fBtrace\fR.
.TP 10
\fBnoquota\fR |\0 \fBquota\fR
The \fBnoquota\fR option disables file system quotas.
The \fBquota\fR option enables file system quotas,
provided that at least one file system quota file is present.
The default is \fBquota\fR.
For more information on quotas, see the
\fISun StorEdge QFS Configuration and Administration
 Guide\fR.
.TP 10
\fBstripe=\fIn\fR
Sets the stripe width for the block-based file system to \fIn\fP disk
allocation units (DAUs).  The stripe width means that \fIn\fR * DAU bytes
are written to one data device logical equipment number (LUN)
before switching to the next LUN.
The DAU size is set on the \fBsammkfs\fR(1M) command's \fB\-a\fR option
when the file system is initialized.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 0 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 255.
If \fIn\fR=0, files are round robined on each slice.
.sp
The default \fIn\fR on file systems with an \fBms\fR Equipment Type and
on file systems with an \fIma\fR Equipment Type with no
striped group (\fBg\fIx\fR) components is as follows:
.PP
.RS 10
.TP 3
\(bu
128 kilobytes/DAU for DAUs < 128 kilobytes
.TP 3
\(bu
1 for DAUs \(>= 128 kilobytes
.RE
.PP
.RS 10
By default, \fIn\fR=0 on a Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system.
By default, \fIn\fR=0 on file systems with an \fBma\fR
Equipment Type with any striped group (\fBg\fIXXX\fR) components.
.sp
NOTE:  The system sets \fBstripe=0\fR if mismatched
striped groups exist.
.sp
This option is only valid on block-based (\fBms\fR, \fBma\fR, and \fBmat\fR)
file system types, see the \fBmcf\fR(4)\fR man page.
.RE
.TP 10
\fBobj_width=\fIn\fR
For an object-based (\fBmb\fR) file system, \fBobj_width\fR
sets the default stripe width for the file system to \fIn\fP OSD units.
The stripe width means the file is horzontially striped across \fIn\fR
OSD units.
If \fIn\fR=0, then all the units in the object group \fBo\fIXXX\fR are
selected. The default \fIn\fR is 1.
.sp
This option is only valid on object-based (\fBmb\fR) file systems.
For more information on file system types, see the \fBmcf\fR(4)\fR man page.
.TP 10
\fBobj_depth=\fIn\fR
For an object-based (\fBmb\fR) file system, \fBobj_depth\fR
specifies the number of bytes to be allocated to an object storage device (OSD)
before switching to the next unit in the object group  \fBo\fIXXX\fR.
The \fIn\fR must be an integer in units of kilobytes. The default is
256 kilobytes. The \fIn\fR is rounded down to the nearest power of 2 integer.
.sp
This option is only valid on object-based (\fBmb\fR) file systems.
For more information on file system types, see the \fBmcf\fR(4)\fR man page.
.RE
.TP 10
\fBsync_meta=\fIn\fR
Specifies whether or not the metadata is written
to the disk every time it changes, as follows:
.PP
.RS 10
.TP 3
\(bu
If \fBsync_meta=0\fR, metadata is held in a buffer before being written
to disk.  This delayed write delivers higher performance.
This is the default for
Sun StorEdge QFS and \%SAM-QFS file systems that are
not mounted as multireader file systems or as Sun StorEdge QFS shared file
systems.
.TP
\(bu
If \fBsync_meta=1\fR, metadata is written  to disk every time it
changes.  This slows performance, but it ensures data consistency.
This is the default for Sun StorEdge QFS file systems that are
mounted as multireader file systems or as Sun StorEdge QFS shared file
systems.  In a Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system,
this is the setting that must
be in effect if failover capability is required.
.RE
.TP 10
\fBworm_capable\fR
The \fBworm_capable\fR option allows Write Once Read Many (WORM) files to
be stored in SAM-QFS filesystems.  Enabling this feature allows the WORM flag
to be set on files and directories. Once the WORM flag is set, a file's
data and path are immutable and the file can not be deleted until its
retention period expires.  In addition, the volume on which the WORM
file resides can not be deleted using sammkfs.  The SAM-QFS WORM package
(SUNWsamfswm) must be installed to use this feature.
.TP 10
\fBworm_lite\fR
The \fBworm_lite\fR option is similar to the worm_capable mount option but
eases the restrictions regarding actions that can be taken on WORM-enabled
volumes and retained files.  WORM lite enabled volumes can be deleted
using sammkfs.  Retained files can be removed before their retention
period expires and their retention period can be shortened (must have
root privileges).  File data and path remain immutable.  The SAM-QFS
WORM package (SUNWsamfswm) must be installed to use this feature.
.TP 10
\fBworm_emul\fR
The \fBworm_emul\fR option is similar to the worm_capable mount option and
enables WORM "Emulation mode".  The difference with this option is
the trigger used to retain files is the transition from a writable to
read-only file.  File data and path are immutable after appying the WORM
trigger.  A file retained in this mode can not be deleted until it's
retention period expires.  Volumes containing WORM emulation mode files
can not be deleted using sammkfs.   The SAM-QFS WORM package (SUNWsamfswm)
must be installed to use this feature.
.TP 10
\fBemul_lite\fR
The \fBemul_lite\fR option is similar to the worm_capable mount option and
enables WORM "Emulation Lite mode".  The trigger to retain files is
the transition from a writable to read-only file.  Retained files can be
removed before their retention period expires and their retention period
can be shortened (must have root privileges).  Data and path changes to a
file are immutable after applying the trigger.  Emulation lite enabled
volumes can be deleted using sammkfs. The SAM-QFS WORM package (SUNWsamfswm)
must be installed to use this feature.
.TP 10
\fBdef_retention=\fIn\fR
The \fBdef_retention\fR option sets the default retention period.
This option requires the SAM-QFS WORM package (SUNWsamfswm) be installed
and a WORM mount option enabled.  This option sets the default retention
period for files which have the WORM feature enabled with no supplied
retention period.  The retention period can take three forms.
A value of \fIpermanent\fR (or \fI0\fR)specifies permanent retention.
A value of the form \fIM\fRy\fIN\fRd\fIO\fRh\fIP\fRm where
\fIM\fR, \fIN\fR, \fIO\fR, \fIP\fR are arbitrary non-negative integers;
y, d, h, m specify the number of years, days, hours, and minute(s)
respectively.
Note that combinations of this form are allowed, and specifiers may
be omitted, e.g., \fI5y\fR, \fI3d1h\fR, \fI4m\fR.
The final form is a simple integer value in minutes
for \fIn\fR, an integer 1 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= \fB2147483647\fR (231 - 1).
If this option is not supplied, a 30 day (43,200 minute) default
retention period is used.  The SAM-QFS WORM package (SUNWsamfswm) must
be installed to use this feature.
.TP
\fBrd_ino_buf_size=\fIn\fR
\fBrd_ino_buf_size\fR sets the size of buffer to \fIn\fR. This is the
buffer which is used to read the .inodes file into buffer cache.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 1024 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 16384.
\fIn\fR is in units of bytes and rounded down to the nearest power of 2.
The default is 16384 bytes.
.TP
\fBwr_ino_buf_size=\fIn\fR
\fBwr_ino_buf_size\fR sets the size of the buffer to \fIn\fR.  This is
the buffer which is used to synchronously write an inode through to the disk.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that
512 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= \fBrd_ino_buf_size\fR.
\fIn\fR is in units of bytes and rounded down to the nearest power of 2.
The default is 512 bytes.
.RE
.PP
.SH I/O OPTIONS
The following options are available for Sun StorEdge QFS and SAM-QFS
file systems.
They allow changing the type of I/O for a file
based on I/O size and history.  Note that if direct I/O
is specified for a file, these options are ignored
and all I/O to regular files is direct, if possible.
Well-aligned I/O occurs when the file offset falls on a 512-byte
boundary and when the length of the I/O transfer is at least 512 bytes.
.TP 10
\fBdio_rd_consec=\fIn\fR
Sets the number of consecutive I/O transfers with a buffer size greater
than the specified lower limit (which is \fBdio_rd_form_min\fR
for aligned reads or \fBdio_rd_ill_min\fR for misaligned reads) to
\fIn\fR operations.
By default, \fIn\fR=0, which means that no default direct reads occur
based on I/O sizes.
Also, by default, \fBdio_rd_form_min\fR and \fBdio_rd_ill_min\fR
are ignored.
.TP
\fBdio_rd_form_min=\fIn\fR
Sets the read well-aligned lower limit to \fIn\fR 1024-byte blocks.
By default, \fIn\fR=256, 1024-byte blocks.
If \fIn\fR=0, automatic I/O type switching for well-aligned reads
is disabled.
.TP
\fBdio_rd_ill_min=\fIn\fR
Sets the read misaligned lower limit to \fIn\fR 1024-byte blocks.
By default, \fIn\fR=0, which disables automatic
I/O type switching for misaligned reads.
.TP
\fBdio_wr_consec=\fIn\fR
Sets the number of consecutive I/O transfers with a buffer size
above the specified lower limit (which is \fBdio_wr_form_min\fR
for aligned writes or \fBdio_wr_ill_min\fR for misaligned writes)
to \fIn\fR operations.
By default, \fIn\fR=0, which means that no default direct writes occur
based on I/O sizes.
Also, by default, \fBdio_wr_form_min\fR and \fBdio_wr_ill_min\fR
are ignored.
.TP
\fBdio_wr_form_min=\fIn\fR
Sets the write well-aligned lower limit to \fIn\fR 1024-byte blocks.
By default, \fIn\fR=256 1024-byte blocks.
Setting \fIn\fR=0 disables automatic I/O type switching for
well-aligned writes.
.TP
\fBdio_wr_ill_min=\fIn\fR
Sets the write misaligned lower limit to \fIn\fR 1024-byte blocks.
By default, \fIn\fR=0, which disables automatic
I/O type switching for misaligned writes.
.TP
\fBatime=\fI \fI-1 |\0 0 |\01\fR
The file system is mounted by default with cached access time recording
(\fBatime = 0\fR). This means access time updates to disk are
deferred for up to 1 minute after the file is last accesssed.
Note, the file access time is immediately updated on disk if SAM
is enabled and the space used is above the low water mark
or when the access time coincides with updates to the ctime or mtime.
See stat(2). The access time is also updated when the
the file system is unmounted.
If \fBatime = 1\fR, the file system will always update access time on disk.
If \fBatime = -1\fR, the file system will not update
access time except when it coincides with updates to the ctime or mtime.
See stat(2).  The \fBatime = -1\fR option reduces disk activity on file
systems where access times are unimportant (for example, a Usenet news spool).
Note, \fBatime = -1\fR, should not be set when SAM is enabled.
.sp
The POSIX standard requires that access times be marked on files.
Note, for \fBatime = 0\fR (the default),
the current access time may not be updated on disk in case
of an interruption.
.TP
\fBnoatime\fR
The \fBnoatime\fR is added to be compatible with other file systems.
If \fBnoatime\fR is specified, atime = -1 will be set. This means
the file system will not update access time except when it coincides
with updates to the ctime or mtime.  See stat(2).
Note, \fBnoatime\fR, should not be set when SAM is enabled.
.TP
\fBforcedirectio\fR
Specifies direct I/O as the default I/O mode.
This means that data is transferred directly between the user's
buffer and disk.
The \fBforcedirectio\fR option should be specified only if
the file system is used for large block aligned sequential I/O.
For more information, see the \fBdirectio\fR(3C), \fBsetfa\fR(1),
\fBsam_setfa\fR(3), and \fBsam_advise\fR(3) man pages.
The default I/O mode is buffered (uses the page cache).
.TP
\fBnodio_szero\fR |\0 \fBdio_szero\fR
The \fBdio_szero\fR option causes uninitialized areas of sparse
files written with direct I/O to be zeroed when the area is accessed.
This makes the sparse file behavior the same as that for paged I/O.
By default, sparse files written by direct I/O do not have the
uninitialized areas zeroed for performance reasons.
The default is \fBnodio_szero\fR.
.sp
The \fBdio_szero\fR option is ignored on the \fBmb\fR file system. If you
want this behavior, you will need to set this option on the object storage
nodes (\fBmat\fR file systems).
.TP
\fBforce_nfs_async\fR
Causes the file system to cache nfs data written to the server even if nfs
has requested that the data be written synchronously through to disk.
The \fBforce_nfs_async\fR option is only useful if
the file system is mounted as a nfs server and the clients
have set the nfs mount option \fBnoac\fR.  The default nfs \fBnoac\fR
behavior without \fBforce_nfs_async\fR causes data to be
synchronously written through to disk. Caution, the \fBforce_nfs_async\fR
option violates the nfs protocol and should be used with care.
Data may be lost in the event of a server interruption.
Also, data is cached on the server and will
not be immediately seen by all the clients if there are multiple nfs
servers. Multiple nfs servers can be enabled with Shared QFS.
.TP
.BI sw_raid
Causes the file system to align the writebehind buffer.
This option should be set if the software raid feature of packages such
as Solstice DiskSuite is being used on this file system.
This option is off by default.
.TP
\fBreadahead=\fIn\fR
Sets the maximum \fBreadahead\fR value to \fIn\fR.
The \fBreadahead\fR option specifies the maximum number of bytes
that can be read ahead by the file system.
\fIn\fR is in units of kilobytes and must be a multiple of 8.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 0 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 16777216.
The default is 1024 (1,048,576 bytes).
.TP
\fBwritebehind=\fIn\fR
Sets the maximum \fBwritebehind\fR value to \fIn\fR.
The \fBwritebehind\fR option specifies the maximum number of bytes
that can be written behind by the file system.
\fIn\fR is in units of kilobytes and must be a multiple of 8.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 0 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 16777216.
The default is 512 (524,288 bytes).
.TP
\fBflush_behind=\fIn\fR
Sets the maximum \fBflush_behind\fR value to \fIn\fR.
When enabled, modified pages that are being written sequentially
are written to disk asynchronously to help the Solaris VM layer
keep the pages clean.
This option sets the maximum \fBflush_behind\fR value to \fIn\fR.
\fIn\fR is in units of kilobytes.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 0 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 8192.
The default is 0, which disables flush behind.
.TP
\fBwr_throttle=\fIn\fR
Sets the maximum number of outstanding write bytes for one
file to \fIn\fP kilobytes.
If \fIn\fR = 0, there is no limit.

The default is 2% of main memory. Using the 2% formula, given the
main memory size on the left, the wr_throttle setting is on the right:
.ft CO
.nf
	  1 GB	 20 MB
	  4 GB	 80 MB
	 16 GB	320 MB
	 64 GB	1.3 GB
.fi 
.TP
\fBqwrite\fR
Enables
simultaneous reads and writes to the same file from different threads.
Specify this option only if users of the
file system handle multiple simultaneous transactions to the same file.
For example, this is useful for database applications.
This option improves I/O performance by queuing multiple requests at
the drive level.
.sp
By default, \fBqwrite\fR is not enabled, and the file system
disables simultaneous reads and writes to the same file.
This is the mode
defined by the UNIX vnode interface standard that gives exclusive access
to only one writer and forces other writers and readers to wait.
.sp
The \fBqwrite\fR option is disabled for NFS reads or writes of the
file system.
.TP 10
\fBnoabr\fR |\0 \fBabr\fR
For Oracle RAC with SAM-QFS AIO only.
Disable (enable) Application Based Recovery of software mirrors.
Applies only to SAM-QFS filesystems built on Solaris Volume Manager
mirrored volumes that likewise support Application Based Recovery.
Default is enabled.
.TP 10
\fBnodmr\fR |\0 \fBdmr\fR
For Oracle RAC with SAM-QFS AIO only.
Disable (enable) Directed Mirror Reads of software mirrors.
Applies only to SAM-QFS filesystems built on Solaris Volume Manager
mirrored volumes that likewise support directed mirror reads.
Default is enabled.
.SH STORAGE AND ARCHIVE MANAGEMENT OPTIONS
The following options can be used when mounting a
 \%SAM-QFS file system.
These options pertain to the storage
and archive management facilities of these file systems.
.TP 10
\fBnosam_db\fR |\0 \fBsam_db\fR
The \fBnosam_db\fR option indicates there is no associated database with
this file system.
The \fBsam_db\fR option indicates there is an associated database with
this file system and file system activity logging is enabled. The sam-fsd
deamon starts sam-fsalogd who logs file system activity.
For more information, see the \fBfsalog.cmd\fR(1M) man page.
The default is \fBnosam_db\fR.
.TP
\fBhigh=\fIn\fR
Sets the \%high-water mark for disk cache utilization to \fIn\fR
percent.  When the amount of space used on the disk cache reaches
\fIn\fR percent,
the \%SAM-QFS file systems
start the releaser process.  For more information, see the
\fBsam-releaser\fR(1M) man page.
The default is 80.
.TP
\fBlow=\fIn\fR
Sets the \%low-water mark for disk cache utilization to \fIn\fR
percent.  When the amount of space used on the disk cache reaches
\fIn\fR percent, the \%SAM-QFS file system
starts the releaser process, which stops releasing disk space.
The default is 70.
.TP
\fBpartial=\fIn\fR
Sets the default partial release size for the file system to \fIn\fR
kilobytes.  The partial release size is used to determine how many
bytes at the beginning of a file marked for partial release should be
retained on disk cache when the file is released.  The user can
override the default on a \%file-by-file
basis by specifying a size when
marking a file for partial release.  For more information, see
the \fBrelease\fR(1) man page.
.sp
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer from 8 to whatever has been set
for the \fBmaxpartial\fR option.
For more information on \fBmaxpartial\fR, see the \fBmaxpartial\fR
option in this list.
The default is 16.
.TP
\fBmaxpartial=\fIn\fR
Sets the maximum partial release size for the file system to \fIn\fR
kilobytes.  The partial release size cannot be set larger than
this \fBmaxpartial\fR setting.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such
that 0 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 2097152.
The default is 16.
.TP
\fBpartial_stage=\fIn\fR
Sets the partial stage size for the file system to \fIn\fR
kilobytes.
For a partial release file, this value specifies the offset in the
file past which access results in the entire file being staged to disk.
For \fIn\fR, specify a integer from 0 to whatever has been set for
the \fBmaxpartial\fR option.
The default is equal to whatever has been set for
the \fBpartial\fR option.
.TP
\fBstage_n_window=\fIn\fR
Sets the \fBstage\ \-n\fR buffer size
for the file system to \fIn\fR kilobytes.
This option applies to files that are read directly from the archive media.
This attribute is set by using the
\fBstage\fR(1) command's \%\fB-n\fR option.
For a file with this attribute,
this is the size that is staged in to the
application's buffer at any one time.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such
that 64 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 2097152.
The default is 256. If the total number of outstanding stage_n buffers is
less than physical memory, the access is not NFS, and the stage_n_window is
less than 1% physical memory, then the buffer
is allocated in pageable memory. Otherwise, blocks are allocated for
the buffer from the file system.
Note, the SAM-QFS shared file system does not support
\fBstage -n\fR from a client.
.TP
\fBstage_retries=\fIn\fR
Sets the number of stage retries attempted per archive copy
when certain errors are encountered.
For \fIn\fR, specify a number such
that 0 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 20.
Setting \fIn\fR=0 prevents a retry from being initiated.
The default is 3.
.TP
\fBstage_flush_behind=\fIn\fR
Sets the maximum stage flush behind value to \fIn\fR kilobytes.
Stage pages that
are being staged are written to disk asynchronously
to help the Solaris VM layer keep pages clean.
For \fIn\fR, specify
an integer such that 0 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 8192.
The default is 0, which means that stage flush behind is disabled.
.TP
\fBhwm_archive\fR
Invokes the archiver when
the amount of data in the file system increases above the
\%high-water mark.
.SH SHARED FILE SYSTEM OPTIONS
The following options are supported for Sun StorEdge QFS,
Sun \%SAM-QFS, and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS shared file systems.
.PP
Both file system equipment types \fBms\fR and \fBma\fR are supported.
For a description of the \fBma\fR and \fBms\fR file systems,
see the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
For a description of the Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system, see
the \fISun StorEdge QFS Configuration and
Administration Guide\fR.
.PP
The stripe width is set by default to round robin (using
the \fBstripe=0\fR mount option).
.TP 10
\fBshared\fR
Specifies that the file system being mounted is a Sun StorEdge QFS shared
file system.  The \fBshared\fR option must be specified in
the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file because it is used in the boot initialization
sequence.
.TP
\fBbg\fR
Specifies that if the first mount attempt fails, the system
should retry the mount in the background.
If \fIbg\fR is not specified, the mount continues in the foreground.
.TP
\fBretry=\fIn\fR
Specifies the number of times to retry the mount operation.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 0 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 20000.
By default, \fIn\fR=10000.
.TP
\fBminallocsz=\fIn\fR
Sets the minimum block allocation value for the Sun StorEdge QFS
shared file system to \fIn\fR.
Specify \fIn\fR in units of kilobytes and as a
multiple of 8 kilobytes.
The \fBminallocsz\fR option specifies the minimum number of
bytes that are allocated
ahead of a write for a Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 16 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 2097152.
By default, \fIn\fR=8 * allocation_unit (DAU).
See \fBsammkfs\fR(1M) command's \fB\-a\fR option.
.TP
\fBmaxallocsz=\fIn\fR
Sets the maximum block allocation value for
the Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system to \fIn\fR.
Specify \fIn\fR in units of kilobytes and as a multiple of 8
kilobytes.
The \fBmaxallocsz\fR option specifies the maximum number
of bytes that are allocated
ahead of a write for a Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 16 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 4194304.
By default, \fIn\fR=128 * allocation_unit (DAU).
See \fBsammkfs\fR(1M) command's \fB\-a\fR option.
.TP
\fBrdlease=\fIn\fR
Sets the read lease time for the Sun StorEdge QFS shared
file system to \fIn\fR seconds.
The \fBrdlease\fR option specifies the maximum number of
seconds that a file can be read before reacquiring the read lease.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 15 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 600.
By default, \fIn\fR=30.
.TP
\fBwrlease=\fIn\fR
Sets the write lease time for the Sun StorEdge QFS
shared file system to \fIn\fR seconds.
Only one host can write to a file at any one time unless
the \fBmh_write\fR option is set on the metadata server.
If the \fBmh_write\fR option is set on the metadata server,
multiple hosts can write to and read from the same file at the same time.
If multiple hosts are writing, the last write is the
one that is effective.
The \fBwrlease\fR option specifies the maximum number of seconds
that a file can be written before reacquiring the write lease.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 15 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 600.
By default, \fIn\fR=30.
.TP
\fBaplease=\fIn\fR
Sets the append lease time for the Sun StorEdge QFS
shared file system to \fIn\fR seconds.
Only one host can append to a file at any one time.
The \fBaplease\fR option
specifies the maximum number of seconds that one host can append
to a file before reacquiring the append lease.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 15 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 600.
By default, \fIn\fR=30.
.TP
\fBmh_write\fR
Enables simultaneous reads and writes to the same file from multiple hosts.
If mh_write is used, the Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system switches all hosts
into directio. The application must use page aligned memory buffers
and well formed sector I/O (512 bytes).
Caution, if the application does not adhere to these alignment rules,
data correctness is not guaranteed.

This option is effective only on the metadata server host.
If this option is specified when mounting the file system on
a client host, it is ignored.  If the client host becomes the
metadata server in the future, however, this option becomes effective.
For this reason, it is recommended to use this mount option on the
metadata host and all potential metadata server hosts.
If the \fBmh_write\fR option is not specified on the metadata server,
only one host can write at any one time to a single file.
.TP
\fBmin_pool=\fIn\fR
Sets the minimum number of shared file system threads to keep around.
The number of threads grows and shrinks dynamically based on load.
This parameter tells the system to keep at least that many threads
in the active pool.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 8 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 2048.
The default \fIn\fR=64.
For Linux the default \fIn\fR=8.
NOTE:  The \fBmin_pool\fR parameter must be set in \fBsamfs.cmd\fR file.
It is ignored if set in the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file or on the \fBmount\fR(1M)
command.

.TP
\fBnstreams=\fIn\fR
* No longer used. *

.TP
\fBmeta_timeo=\fIn\fR
Allow attributes and directory data to be cached by a host system
for up to \fIn\fR seconds before checking for consistency with the
metadata server.
The default \fIn\fR=3.
.sp
Example 1.  With the default setting of \fBmeta_timeo\fR=3, the
file system verifies attribute and directory consistency with the
metadata server at least every 3 seconds.  For instance, a new file
created on one host may not be seen by an \fBls\fR(1) command on
another host for up to 3 seconds.
.sp
Example 2.  If \fBmeta_timeo\fR=0, the file system verifies
attribute and directory consistency with the metadata server
before each use.  The \fBcattr\fR mount option can be used with
\fBmeta_timeo\fR=0 to ensure that changes made by other hosts currently
modifying a file are also immediately visible.
.sp
Example 3.  If \fBmeta_timeo=3\fR, with the \fBnocattr\fR mount option
(default), the file system verifies attribute consistency if it has not
been checked in the past 3 seconds; however, attribute changes made by a
client host which is currently modifying a file may not be detected until
the client lease time has expired.
.sp
Example 4.  If \fBmeta_timeo=3\fR, with the \fBcattr\fR mount option,
the file system verifies attribute consistency if it has not been checked
in the past 3 seconds, and also ensures that attribute changes made by
other hosts are detected within that time interval.

.TP
\fBcattr\fR |\0 \fBnocattr\fR
Enable (disable) attribute consistency checking.  If \fBcattr\fR is set,
the file system ensures that attribute changes made by a host which is
modifying a file are visible to other hosts within the \fBmeta_timeo\fR
interval.  (Directories are not affected by \fBcattr\fR; directory
modifications are always visible within the time interval set by
\fBmeta_timeo\fR.)

With the default setting of \fBnocattr\fR, attribute changes made by a
host (in particular, file size and modification time) may not be visible
to other hosts until the write or append lease time has expired.

Note that enabling \fBcattr\fR may adversely affect performance, as
additional network traffic is required.
.TP
\fBlease_timeo=\fIn\fR
The read, write, and/or append lease for a single file is relinquished
if it is not being used after \fIn\fR seconds.
\fBlease_timeo\fR varies from -1 to 15 seconds.
If \fBlease_timeo\fR is >=0, the lease is relinquished
if it is not being used after \fIn\fR seconds.
If \fBlease_timeo\fR is set to -1, the lease is not relinquished
and the lease expires based on the lease time.
Note, the read and write lease is not relinquished
if \fBmh_write\fR is set because multiple reader/writer hosts are enabled.
The default \fIn\fR is 0.
.SH MULTIREADER FILE SYSTEM OPTIONS
The following options support the single-writer, multireader file
system.
This file system is mounted on one host system
as a single-writer file system that updates the file
system.  In addition, this file system can be mounted on one or more
host systems as a multireader file system.
.PP
These options can be specified only on Sun StorEdge QFS
file systems.  The \fBwriter\fR option
cannot be used if you are mounting the file system
as a Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system, however, the \fBreader\fR option
is supported. Note, \fBsync_meta\fR should be set to 1 if the
\fBreader\fR option is used in a Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system.
.PP
A major difference between the multireader file system and Sun
QFS shared file system is that the multireader host reads metadata from
the disk, and the client hosts of a Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system
read metadata over the network.
.PP
The system administrator must ensure that only one host
in a multireader file system has the file system
mounted with the \fBwriter\fR
mount option enabled.
.TP 10
\fBwriter\fR
Sets the file system to type writer.
There can be only one host system that has the file system
mounted with the \fBwriter\fR
option at any one time.
If \fBwriter\fR is specified, files are flushed to disk at
close and directories are always written through to disk.
The option \fBatime = 1\fB is set for \fBwriter\fR.
.sp
Prior to the 4.0 release, the \fBwriter\fR option was specified as
the \fBshared_writer\fR option.  The older syntax is supported
for backward compatibility.
.TP
\fBreader\fR
Sets the file system to type reader.
This mounts the file system as read only.
There is no limit to the number of host systems that can
have the same file system mounted with the \fBreader\fR option.
By default, each lookup checks the inode and refreshes
the inode pages if the inode has been modified by the writer host.
If the \fBinvalid\fR option is set to a value greater than 0,
the inode is checked for
modification only after it has aged \fBinvalid\fR
seconds after the last check; for more information, see
the \fBinvalid\fR option.
.sp
Prior to the 4.0 release, the \fBreader\fR option was specified as
the \fBshared_reader\fR option.  The older syntax is supported
for backward compatibility.
.TP
\fBinvalid=\fIn\fR
When specified in conjunction with the \fBreader\fR option,
holds cached attributes for the multireader file system
at least \fIn\fR
seconds after file modification.  Caution, it is possible to
read stale data if \fBinvalid\fR is set to a nonzero value.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that \%0\ \(<=\ \fIn\fR\ \(<=\ 60.
By default, \fIn\fR=0.
.sp
Example 1.  If \fBinvalid=0\fR, which is the default,
the file system always checks
to see if the inode is stale.  That is, it checks to
see if the inode has been
changed by the writer host.
.sp
Example 2.  If \fBinvalid=30\fR, the
file system checks the inode 30 seconds after the last
check. This means that if you issue an \fBls\fR(1) command,
you might not see a new file for 30 seconds after it has been created
on the writer host.  This also means that if you open an existing
file, for example with the \fBcat\fR(1) command, you might not see
any changes made to the file on the writer host in the past 30 seconds.
.TP
\fBrefresh_at_eof\fR
When specified in conjunction with the \fBreader\fR option,
the current file size is refreshed when the read buffer exceeds the
end of file.
.SH SUN STOREDGE QFS OPTIONS
The following options are supported only for Sun StorEdge QFS and \%SAM-QFS
file systems on \fIma\fR Equipment Type file systems.
For more information on the \fBma\fR file system Equipment Type, see the
\fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.TP 10
\fBmm_stripe=\fIn\fR
Sets the metadata stripe width for the file system
to \fIn\fR 16-kilobyte disk allocation
units (DAUs).
By default, \fBmm_stripe=1\fR,
which writes one DAU of metadata to one LUN before switching
to another LUN.
If \fBmm_stripe=0\fR,
the metadata is round robined across all available metadata LUNs.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\fB/etc/mnttab\fR
Table of mounted file systems.
.TP
\fB/etc/vfstab\fR
List of default parameters for each file system.
.TP
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/samfs.cmd\fR
List of default and global parameters for \%SAM-QFS
file systems.  For more information, see the \fBsamfs.cmd\fR(4) man page.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR release (1),
.BR setfa (1),
.BR ssum (1).
.PP
.BR mount (1M),
.BR mountall (1M),
.BR sam-fsalogd (1M),
.BR sam-releaser (1M),
.BR sammkfs (1M),
.BR umount_samfs (1M).
.PP
.BR mount (2).
.PP
.BR sam_setfa (3),
.BR sam_advise (3),
.BR directio (3C).
.PP
.BR mcf (4),
.BR mnttab (4),
.BR samfs.cmd(4),
.BR vfstab (4).
.SH NOTES
If the directory upon which a file system is to be mounted is a
symbolic link, the file system is mounted on
the directory to which the symbolic link refers,
rather than on top of the symbolic link itself.
.PP
The mount parameters can be provided in the \fBsamfs.cmd\fR file,
in the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file, and on the \fBmount\fR(1M)
command.  Specifications in the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file
override the directives in the \fBsamfs.cmd\fR file,
and options to the \fBmount\fR(1M)
command override specifications in the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file.
