.\" $Revision: 1.14 $ 
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems 
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH odlabel 1M  "21 Jun 2000"
.SH NAME
odlabel \- Label optical media 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B odlabel
.BI \-vsn " vv..."
.BR \- [ new " | " old
.IR vv... ]
.RB [ \-info ]
.IR " aa..." ]
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-erase ]
.IR eq [ :slot:side ]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B odlabel
labels the volume in the optical cartridge specified by 
.IB eq [ :slot:side ].
.I eq 
is the equipment ordinal.
If
.I eq
is a library,
.I slot
is the slot in the library containing the cartridge.
.I side
is the side (1 or 2) of a two-sided cartridge.
.LP
A
.B VOL
(volume) and a
.B PAR
(partition) label are written.  These labels conform to ISO standard
IEC13346.  The data portion follows ISO standard TC97SC23.
.LP
.BI \-vsn " vv..."
specifies the volume serial name of the optical disk being labeled (up to 31
characters).
.LP
If the media being labeled was previously labeled, the VSN must be specified
by
.B \-old
.IR vv... .
The "old" VSN is compared with the VSN on the media to assure that the
correct media is being relabeled.
.LP
If the media is not labeled (i.e., blank),
.B \-new
must be specified to prevent the previous label comparison from being made.
.LP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10   
.BI \-info " aa..."
Specifies the "Implementation Use" string in the label (up to 127 characters). 
.TP
.B \-V
Verbose, lists label information written. 
.TP
.B \-erase
Erases the media completely before a label is written.  This is a security
feature that is normally not necessary.  Complete media erasure will take
a long time to perform since all data in the media is erased.
.TP
.B \-w
Wait for the labeling operation to complete.  If an error occurs, it will be
reported along with a completion code of 1.  All labeling errors are also
logged.  Note:  Canceling a command that is waiting for completion will not
cause the operation itself to be canceled.
.PP
