.\" $Revision: 1.18 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH recover.sh 1M "14 Jan 2004"
.SH NAME
recover.sh \- Recovers files archived after last \fBsamfsdump\fR(1M) was taken
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/recover.sh\fR
\fB/\fImount_point\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBrecover.sh\fR script
recovers files using the information in the
archiver log.  This script can be useful in a disaster recovery situation when a file
system has been lost and is recovered from a saved \fBsamfsdump\fR(1M) file.
If files were archived for the first time after the dump was taken,
there is no record of them in the dump.  This script can be used to reload
those files from the archive copy by using the \fBstar\fR(1M) program.
.SH USAGE
.TP 10
Step 1.
Edit the archiver log file and extract the relevant portion.
.sp
In this editing session, you should eliminate entries for second,
third, or fourth archive
copies from this file because otherwise the files are recovered multiple
times, which wastes time.  You should also eliminate directory entries.
Directory entries are noted by a \fBd\fR in field 12 of the archiver log.
.sp
After the file is edited, save the edited file to a temporary file.  For
example, save this file to \fB/tmp/arlog.in\fR.
.TP
Step 2.
Copy the script from its default location to a temporary location.
.sp
Use a command such as the following to copy the script to a temporary
location:
.sp
.nf
.ft CO
server# \fBcp /opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/recover.sh /tmp/recover.sh\fR
.ft
.fi
.TP   
\fRStep 3.\fR
Edit a working copy of the script and modify it for your site.
.sp
Edit the copy and change the value of \fBBLK_SIZE\fR from \fB128\fR to
the block size in kilobytes for the VSNs in question.
.TP
Step 4.
Run the \fBrecover.sh\fR script.
.sp
This creates a new script to actually do the work of 
recovering the files.
In the following example, the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS mount point is \fB/sam1\fR.
.sp
.ft CO
.nf
server# \fB/tmp/recover.sh /sam1 < /tmp/arlog.in > /tmp/recover.out\fR
.ft
.fi
.sp
\fRIf you have multiple drives and want to recover from more than one
VSN at a time, you can split this script into pieces first.  The following
line appears at the end of the work for each VSN:
.sp
"#  ----------- end of files for vsn " XXX " ---------"
.sp
The \fBXXX\fR is replaced with the VSN's bar code label.
.TP
Step 5.
Create a temporary directory to which the recovered files can be written.
.sp
Create this directory in a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system.
Although
this could be your mount point, it is probably better to recover to a
temporary directory in the Sun
StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system first, 
and then move the files to 
their final location after recovery is complete and everything looks as
expected.
For example:
.sp
.ft CO
server# \fBmkdir /sam1/recover\fR
.ft
.TP
\fRStep 6.
Change to the temporary directory to receive the recovered files.
.sp
Use the \fBcd\fR(1) command to change to the
directory in which you want the files recovered.
.sp
.nf
.ft CO
server# \fBcd /sam1/recover\fR
server# \fBsh -x /tmp/recover.out\fR
.ft
.fi
.TP
\fRStep 7.
Run the \fBrecover.out\fR script.
.sp
The \fB/tmp/recover.out\fR shell script is created in the previous step.  It
can be used to recover all the files listed in the \fB/tmp/arlog.in\fR file.
.sp
Run the \fBrecover.out\fR script.  If you have split the scripts, you may have
to run it multiple times.
.SH WARNINGS
Improper use of this script can damage user or system data.
Please refer to the \fISun QFS, Sun \%SAM-FS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS Disaster
Recovery Guide\fR or contact technical support before using this script.
.SH NOTES
If used with the \%SAM-Remote clients or server,
the recovery must be performed on the server
to which the tape library is attached.
.PP
Do not run multiple recovery scripts at the same time.
.SH FILES
This script resides in the following location:
.PP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/recover.sh
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBarchiver\fR(1M),
\fBrequest\fR(1M),
\fBstar\fR(1M).
