.\" $Revision: 1.14 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH reserve 1M "19 Sep 2000"
.SH NAME
reserve \- Reserve a volume for archiving.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/reserve 
.IB mediatype . vsn
.br
.IB asname / owner / fsname
.BI [ time ]
.br
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/reserve 
.IB eq : slot "[:" partition ]
.br
.IB asname / owner / fsname
.BI [ time ]
.br
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B reserve
assigns the volume for archival of specific files.
.LP
Normally, the archiver performs reservation of volumes.  This command is
provided to pre-reserve a volume.
.LP
The volume is determined by the specifier
.IB mediatype . vsn
, or
.IB eq : slot "[:" partition ]
.LP
The reservation is specified by the fields
.BR asname ", " owner ", and " fsname
These fields may be empty depending on the options in the archiver command file.
.LP
.I time
is the time the volume is reserved.  If not specified, the reserve time
is set to the present time.  Several formats are allowed for
.IR time .
Examples are:
.LP
"2000-09-19";
"2000-07-04 20:31";  23:05;  "Mar 23";
"Mar 23 1994"; "Mar 23 1994 23:05"; "23 Mar"; "23 Mar 1994"; "23 Mar
1994 23:05".
.LP
Month names may be abbreviated or spelled out in full.
Time-of-day is given in 24-hour format.  Years must use all four
digits.  If the \fItime\fP contains blanks, the entire time must be
enclosed in quotation marks.
.LP
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR archiver (1M),
.BR archiver.cmd (1M),
.BR unreserve (1M)
