.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH restore.sh 1M "24 Apr 2002"
.SH NAME
restore.sh \- Restores files online
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B restore.sh
\fIlog_file\fR
\fImount_point\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B restore.sh
script restores files to their online or partially
online status.  This script should be used after performing a file system
restore using the \fBsamfsrestore\fR(1M) command.
.PP
This script accepts the following arguments:
.TP 10
\fIlog_file\fR
Specify the name of the log file that was created by
the \fBsamfsrestore\fR(1M) command.
.TP
\fImount_point\fR
Specify the mount point of the file system being restored.
.SH USAGE
Step 1.  Recreate or restore the file system.
.br
You can do this by using 
the \fBsamfsrestore\fR(1M) command with its \%\fB-g\fR option.
This creates a log file.
.PP
Step 2.  Run the \fBrestore.sh\fR script.
.br
The first argument is the log file created in the 
previous step, and the second argument is the file system mount point.
This script stages back the files that were previously online or partially
online at the time the \&\fB.inodes\fR copy or \fBsamfsdump\fR(1M) was created.
.SH FILES
The \fBrestore.sh\fR script resides in the following location:
.PP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/restore.sh
.SH SEE ALSO
\fISun QFS, Sun SAM-FS, and Sun SAM-QFS Disaster Recovery Guide\fR.
.PP
\fBsamfsdump\fR(1M),
\fBsamfsrestore\fR(1M).

