.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam-scannerd 1M "21 Feb 2003"
.SH NAME
sam-scannerd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS daemon for manually-mounted devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-scannerd
.I mshmid
.I pshmid
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam-scannerd
monitors the manually-mounted devices.  It will periodically check each
device for newly inserted media.  If
.B sam-scannerd
finds media in the device, it will scan it for a label.  If a label is
found, it will check the preview table to see if there are any requests
for this media.  If requests are found, the
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
file system is notified and the device is assigned to the request.
.PP
.B sam-scannerd
is started automatically by
.B sam-amld
if there are any manually-mounted devices defined in the configuration file.
See 
.BR mcf (4).
.PP
.I mshmid 
is the id of the master shared memory segment created by
.BR sam-amld .
.I pshmid
is the id of the preview shared memory segment created by
.BR sam-amld .
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sam-amld (1M),
.BR mcf (4)



