.\" $Revision: 1.23 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam-fsd 1M "30 Dec 2003"
.SH NAME
sam-fsd \- Initializes Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /usr/lib/fs/samfs/sam-fsd 
[
.B \-C
]
[
.B \-c
.IR defaults ]
[
.B \-d
.IR diskvols ]
[
.B \-f
.IR samfs ]
[
.B \-m
.IR mcf ]
[
.B \-v
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B sam-fsd
initializes Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments
and performs tasks 
for the file system kernel code. 
These tasks include sending messages to syslog, and starting the archiver,
releaser, shared fs, and stager daemons.
It is started by
.BR init (1M)
using an entry in
.B /etc/inittab

sf:23:respawn:/usr/lib/fs/samfs/sam-fsd
.LP
When started,
.B sam-fsd
reads the configuration files
.BR defaults.conf ,
.BR diskvols.conf ,
.BR mcf ,
and
.B samfs.cmd
located in the directory
.BR /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs .
These files may be changed at any time while
.B sam-fsd
is running.  The changes will take place when
.B sam-fsd
is restarted, or sent the signal SIGHUP.
.LP
The filesystems are configured and necessary daemons are started.
Configuration parameters are set, and table files are written for use by
other components of Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environment.

.LP
If errors occur in any of the configuration files,
.B sam-fsd
refuses to run and writes a notification message to
.BR syslog .
The problem must be corrected, and the signal SIGHUP sent to
.BR sam-fsd .
.B sam-fsd
then rereads the configuration files.  The
.B syslog
message contains the command necessary to signal
.B sam-fsd .
 'kill -HUP
.IR sam-fsd-pid '
.SS Trace Files
.LP
Several Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS
daemons write messages to trace files.
These messages contain information about the state and progress of the
work performed by the daemons.  The messages are primarily used by Sun
engineers and support personnel to improve performance and diagnose problems.
As such, the message content and format are subject to change with bugfixes
and feature releases.

The daemons writing trace files are:  \%sam-archiverd,
\%sam-catserver, \%sam-fsd,
\%sam-rftd, \%sam-recycler, \%sam-sharefsd, and \%sam-stagerd.

To prevent the trace files from growing indefinitely, \%\fBsam-fsd\fR
monitors the size and age of the trace files and periodically
executes the script \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/trace_rotate\fR.  This
script moves the trace files to sequentially numbered copies.
The script is executed when the trace file exceeds a specified
size, or age.  The size and age are specified in \fBdefaults.conf\fR.
If \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/trace_rotate\fR does not
exist, \%\fBsam-fsd\fR performs no action.
.SH OPTIONS
.LP
.B sam-fsd
may be started by direct execution to provide detailed messages about
problems in configuration files.  In this case, the following options
are allowed:
.TP 10
.B \-c
.I defaults
.br
Sets an alternate \fBdefaults.conf\fR file to check.
.I defaults
is the path to the alternate defaults configuration file.
.TP
.B \-d
.I diskvols
.br
Sets an alternate \fBdiskvols.conf\fR file to check.
.I diskvols
is the path to the alternate diskvols configuration file.
.TP
.B \-f
.I fs_name
.br
Sets a single file system.
.I fs_name 
is the family set name from the \fBmcf\fR file.
.TP
.B \-m
.I mcf
.br
Sets an alternate \fBmcf\fR file to check.
.I mcf
is the path to the alternate \fBmcf\fR file.
.TP
.B \-v
Sets verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-C
Configure Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS
if not already configured.  Must
be the only option.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs
Location of Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-QFS
configuration files.
.TP
.B mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and
Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.TP
.B samfs.cmd
Sun StorEdge QFS and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS mount commands file.
.TP
.B defaults.conf
Set default values for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS
environment.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR defaults.conf (4),
.BR diskvols.conf (4),
.BR mcf (4),
.BR samfs.cmd (4).
.PP
.BR trace_rotate (1M).
.RE
.LP
