.\" $Revision: 1.1 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam-shrink 1M "15 Apr 2008"
.SH NAME
sam-shrink \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS disk space shrink process
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-shrink\fR
\fIfile_system\fR | \fIfamily_set\fR
\fI\-remove\fR | \fI\-release\fR
.I eq
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This \fIsam-shrink\fP process is executed when a shrink of a Sun StorEdge \%QFS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system is required.
The \fIsamu\fP command \fIremove\fP or \fIrelease\fP on device \fIeq\fP
causes the \fIeq\fP state to be set to \fInoalloc\fP. Then, the file system
requests the master daemon
\fIsam-fsd\fP daemon to start the process \%\fBsam-shrink\fR.
The device specified by \fIeq\fP must be a data device that
resides within a \fIms\fP or \fIma\fP file system.
If the data device is a stripe group, the first
\fIeq\fP of the stripe group is given.
The \fIeq\fP state is changed to \fInoalloc\fP by the \fIsamu\fP command.
.PP
The remove option copies all files and metadata that reside on \fIeq\fP
to the other available data devices according to the mount parameters.
.PP
The release eption is only available on the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-QFS
file system. The release option marks all files that reside on
\fIeq\fP offline. If any files have partial on-line, that data will be
released, too. Files that have not been archived and metadata that
resides on \fIeq\fP will be copied
to the other available data devices according to the mount parameters.
.PP
After successful completion of the remove or release operation, the
\fIeq\fP state will be \fIoff\fP. It may take a long time to complete
the shrink operation.
.PP
If the remove or release operation was not able to release or move all
the files on the \fIeq\fP state will remain \fInoalloc\fP. The remove
or release operation can be executed again on this \fIeq\fP. The
\fBshrink.log\fR should be examined for reasons why the
\fIeq\fP state could not be change to \fIoff\fP.
.SH LOG
Within the \fBshrink.cmd\fR file,
you can specify a log file for each Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system.
If no \fBlogfile=\fIfilename\fR directive exists in the file,
no logging occurs.
For more information on the \fBlogfile=\fIfilename\fR directive,
see the \fBshrink.cmd\fR(4) man page.
.PP
The sam-shrink creates the log file (if it does not exist) and
appends the following to it for each run:
.ft CO
.nf

     Tue Sep 29 15:31:15 2008 Shrink process started: samfs5 release 15
     RE 6412.5  P S0 /sam1/250m
     RE 5131.5  P S0 /sam1/filecq
     MV 5095.4 -- S0 /sam1/filecu
     ER 5039.5 16 S0 /sam1/filedi
     MV 5039.2 -- S0 /sam1/lsc/filexx
     Tue Sep 29 15:31:55 2008 shrink process successful for samfs5 eq 15
.fi
.ft
.PP
The first line shows the arguments with which the shrink
was invoked: file_system command equipment.
.PP
The next block of lines has one line per file processed:
The fields are as follows:
.TP 15
\fBField Number\fR
\fBContent\fR
.TP
1
This field contains the \fItag\fB:
\fIRE\fR for released, \fIMV\fR for removed,
or \fIER\fR for error releasing or removing file.
If the directive \fIdo_not_execute\fR is set in the \fBshrink.cmd\fR file,
this field contains the this field contains the \fItag\fB: \fINO\fR.
.TP
2
This field contains the inode and generation number of the file.
.TP
3
This field contains the stage or errno \fItag\fR.
For the command release, \fItag\fR is either \fI S\fR for file staged back
on-line, \fI P\fR for partial staged back on-line,
or \fI--\fR for no stage action on this file.
For a field with \fIER\fR in the first field, this tag is the error number.
.TP
4
This field contains an \fBS\fR followed by the segment number.
This is the number of the segment that was released.
.TP
5
This field contains the full path name of the released or moved file.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mcf (4).
.BR shrink.cmd (4).
