'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.9 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam-clfsd 1M "21 Feb 2003"
.SH NAME
sam-clfsd \- Sun \%SAM-QFS shared file system client daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sam-clfsd
[
.BI \-d
]
[
.BI \-f " fsname"
]
[
.BI \-h
]
[
.BI \-i " fsname"
]
[
.BI \-l
]
[
.BI \-u " fsname"
]
[
.BI \-w
]
[
.BI dev ...
]
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWclqfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam-clfsd
loads the samfs and samioc modules into the operating system
if they are not already loaded, and updates or reports on
configuration information.
The options to sam-clfsd are:
.TP 10
.B -h
Print out a short usage message and exit.
.TP 10
.B -l
Report the names of all configured filesystems.
.TP 10
.B -f " fsname"
Compare the named filesystem with the listed
.B dev ...
devices, and
report any discrepancies, such as missing partitions,
partitions that don't belong to the named filesystem, etc..
.TP 10
.B -i " fsname"
Verify that the listed
.B dev ...
devices comprise the slices of the named filesystem,
and install and configure the filesystem.
.TP 10
.B -u " fsname"
Uninstall the named filesystem from the system's configured filesystems.
This command will fail on a mounted filesystem.
.TP 10
.B -d
Start up the sam-sharefsd daemon for the specified filesystem.
Useful only with the
.B -i
option.
After installing the filesystem, sam-clfsd forks off a child
that starts up the sam-sharefsd daemon.  If the daemon
exits with a non-fatal error, the restarting it
as necessary.  The command itself returns.
.TP 10
.B -w
Causes the sam-clfsd program to await a fatal error from
the sam-sharefsd daemon instead of returning immediately.
Useful only with the
.B -i
and
.B -d
options.
.PP
.B sam-clfsd
must be run as root.
.SH EXAMPLE
.nf
Here's an example using sam-clfsd:

	Configure the filesystem:

juniper# sam-clfsd -di shsam1 /dev/dsk/c4t50020F23000055A8d0s1 /dev/dsk/c4t50020F23000078F1d0s0 /dev/dsk/c4t50020F23000078F1d0s1
FS 'shsam1' installed
juniper# mount shsam1

\.\.\.\.

juniper# umount shsam1
juniper# ps
   PID TTY      TIME CMD
   481 console  0:00 csh
  3722 console  0:00 sam-shar
  3721 console  0:00 sam-clfsd
  3727 console  0:00 ps
juniper# kill 3721 3722
juniper# sam-clfsd -u shsam1

.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mount(1M)
.BR samfsconfig(1M)
