'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.6 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH sam-nrecycler 1M "13 Jun 2006"
.SH NAME
sam-nrecycler \- Recycles Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-nrecycler\fR
[\%\fB\-n\fR]
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \%\fBsam-nrecycler\fR command
invokes the nrecycler.
The nrecycler removes expired archive copies
and frees up archive volumes.
Often, the nrecycler is invoked
through root's \fBcrontab\fR(1) file at an \%off-peak time.
However, the nrecycler can be invoked at any time.
.PP
The \%\fBsam-nrecycler\fR command provides
additional support to aid in the ability to use SAM-FS
dump files for SAM archive retention capabilities.  The nrecycler
will scan file system metadata
and SAM-FS dump files to determine which removable media and disk
archive volumes contain archive images so space on unused volumes
can be reclaimed.  The nrecycler will identify all the archive
images present on a removable media volume or disk archive tar
ball by scanning all file system .inodes files and specified
SAM-FS dump files.  By scanning the file systems and SAM-FS dump
files, the nrecycler can determine if there are volumes which
do not contain any archive images and the space on these volumes
can be reclaimed.  If a removable media volume does not contain
any archive images, it is safe to relabel the cartridge.  If a
disk archive tar ball does not contain any archive images, it is
safe to remove the tar ball from the disk archive directory.
.PP
You must provide directives to the nrecycler through lines entered
in the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/nrecycler.cmd\fR file.
User must specify a path to directories containing all SAM-FS
dump files to be searched.
If no directories are specified in the command file,
recycling does not occur.
The user is responsible for making
sure the list of directories is complete and all SAM-FS dump
files are contained in the directory list.
The nrecycler
cannot validate the SAM-FS dump file list.  All removable media
and disk volumes are eligible to be selected as obsolete, and
thus eligible to be relabeled or unlinked.
.PP
After the nrecycler detects that a removable media volume
contains only free and expired space, thus it is safe to relabel,
the nrecycler invokes the sam-nrecycler.sh script.  The 
script can relabel the cartridge using either the original VSN or
a new VSN; or it can export the cartridge from the library; or it
can perform another user-defined action.
.PP
After the nrecycler detects that a disk archive volume contains
only free and expired space, the nrecycler will unlink the 
unused disk archive tar ball.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP
\%\fB\-n\fR
Prevents any actions from being taken.
.SH OPERATION
The sam-recycler command should not be used.
The nrecycler will scan all
file system .inodes files and specified SAM-FS dump files.  Since
sam-recycler only will scan file system .inodes files it will
incorrectly reclaim space on archive volumes that has space
occupied by archive copies in the SAM-FS dump files.
.sp
You must have the nrecycler command enabled by setting the
.sp
nrecycler = yes
.sp
option in the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/defaults.conf\fR file.
.sp
The nrecycler is designed to run periodically.  It performs as
much work as it can each time it is invoked.  Between executions,
the nrecycler keeps SAM-FS dump file information in a
nrecycler dat file.
.sp
All files in SAM-FS dump directories must be valid SAM-FS dump files.
Hidden files, files that begin with a dot, are skipped.
During the first scan of a dump, the nrecycler will create a dat file.
The nrecycler dat file will be created in the same directory as
the dump file with the string 'SUNWsamfs' appended to the
original dump file's name.  A nrecycler dat file contains a
summary of which removable media and and disk archive volumes
contain archive images for the dump.  This is a nrecycler
performance optimization so the dump file does not need to be
reread during every execution of the nrecycler.
If a SAM-FS dump should no longer be processed, the
nrecycler's dat file for the file must be removed from the dump
directory.
.sp
All removable media and disk archive volumes will be examined and
must be owned by this instantiation of SAM.  The nrecycler
should not be used in a SAM-remote environment.  However, if disk archive
volumes are not shared between servers, the nrecycler will work
correctly on disk volumes that are reside on other machines.
.sp
The nrecycler checks to see if there are removable media volumes that were selected for
recycling that have not yet been \%post-processed.  If such volumes
exist, and they are now devoid of active archive copies, the \fBsam-nrecycler\fR
command invokes the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/nrecycler.sh\fR(1M),
which \%post-processes these volumes with arguments including the generic media
type (\fBtp\fR or \fBod\fR),
the VSN, the element address in the library, and the equipment number
of the library in which the volume resides.  The script can
relabel the cartridge using either the original VSN or a new VSN; or
it can export the cartridge from the library; or it
can perform another \%user-defined action.
The nrecycler.sh script will not be invoked
if the amount of space used on a removable media volume is less than 50% of total space 
available on the volume. 
.PP
Each time it is run, the nrecycler performs these steps:
.sp
1. Build a list of all removable media and disk archive volumes
configured in SAM-FS.  For faster searching, a hash table will be
used to hold volume information.
.sp
2. Collect a list of all file systems configured in SAM-FS. All
SAM-FS file systems, or for which we are the metadata server,
must be mounted to allow the .inodes file to be read.
.sp
3. Generate a list of specified SAM-FS dump directories.
Initialize samfsdump file processing by walking each of the
specified directories and validating the contents of every file.
Every file in the directory must be a valid samfsdump file or a
nrecycler dat file must exist for a dump file.
.sp
4. Scan file systems' .inode file reading each inode in all file
systems.  For each archive copy, the VSN on which the copy
resides is accumulated into the VSN table.
.sp
5. Scan all SAM-FS dump files reading each inode in all dump
files.  For each archive copy, the VSN on which the copy resides
is accumulated into the VSN table.  During the first scan of a
dump, the nrecycler will create a dat file.  Subsequent
execution of the nrecycler will use VSN summary information
from the dat file.
.sp
6. Depending on the disk archives' maximum sequence number,
multiple file system .inodes and SAM-FS dump file scans may be
necessary.
.sp
7. Select removable media and disk volumes that are obsolete and
eligible to be relabeled or unlinked.
.SH RECYCLER OUTPUT
None.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nrecycler.sh (1M).
.BR nrecycler.cmd (4).
