.\" $Revision: 1.31 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam-archiverd 1M "25 Nov 2003"
.SH NAME
sam-archiverd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file archive daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-archiverd
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The archiver daemon automatically archives Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS files 
when a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file
system is mounted.  It is started by \%\fBsam-fsd\fR, and it
cannot be executed from
a command line.  Directives for controlling the archiver are read from
the archiver commands file, which is
.BR /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd .
This file does not have to be present for the archiver daemon to execute.
If the
.B archiver.cmd
file is present, however, it must be free of errors.
Errors in the
.B archiver.cmd
file prevent the archiver daemon from executing.
If the
.B archiver.cmd
file is not present, all files on the file system are
archived to the available removable media according to archiver defaults.
.LP
.B sam-archiverd
executes in the directory
.BR /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver .
This is the archiver's working directory.  Each
.B sam-arfind
daemon executes in a subdirectory named for the file system being archived.
Each
.B sam-arcopy
daemon executes in a subdirectory named for the archive file
(rm0 - rmxx) being archived to.
.PP
.SH ARCHIVING INTERNALS
Archive Sets are the mechanism that the archiver uses to direct files
in a
.B samfs
file system to media during archiving.

All files in the file system are members of one and only one Archive Set.
Characteristics of a file are used to determine Archive Set membership.
All files in an Archive Set are copied to the media associated with the
Archive Set.  The Archive Set name is simply a synonym for a collection of
media volumes.

Files are written to the media in an Archive File which is written in
.B tar
format.  The combination of the Archive Set and the
.B tar
format results in an operation that is just like using the command
.B find(1)
to select files for the
.B tar
command.

In addition, the file system meta data, (directories, the index
of segmented files, and the
removable media information), are assigned to an Archive Set to be copied
to media.  The Archive Set name is the name of the file system.
(See \fBmcf\fR(4)).  Symbolic links are considered data files for the
purposes of archiving.

Each Archive Set may have up to four archive copies defined.  The copies
provide duplication of files on different media.  Copies are selected
by the Archive Age of a file.

Files in an Archive Set are candidates for archival action after a period
of time, the Archive Age, has elapsed.  
The Archive Age of a file is computed using a selectable time reference for
each file.  The default time reference is the file's modification time. 

For processing files in archive sets with an unarchive age specified, the
unarchive age default time reference is the file's access
time.  But, in this case, two other conditions are recognized: 
If the modification time is later than the access time, the
modification time is used.  And, if an archive copy was unarchived, the
file will be rearchived only after the file is staged from another copy, i.e
the file was offline at the time a read access was made to the file.

Since users may change these time references to values far
in the past or future, the time reference will be adjusted by the archiver
to keep it in the range:  creation_time <= time_ref <= time_now.

.SH "Scheduling archive copies."


.B "Finding files to archive."
.LP
Each file system is examined by an individual sam-arfind.  The examination is
accomplished by one of three methods.  The method is selected by the
.BI "examine = " method
directive.  (See
.BR archiver.cmd (4)).
The examination methods are:
.LP
1.  Continuous archiving.  Scanning directories is performed as files and
directories are created and changed.
.LP
2. The 'traditional' examination mode.  The first time that sam-arfind
executes, all directories are recursively scanned.  This assures that
each file gets examined.  The file status "archdone" is set if the file
does not need archiving.  All other scans are performed by reading the
\&.inodes file.
.LP
3.  Scan only the directory tree.  Recursively descend through the
directory tree.  If a directory has the "noarchive" attribute set, it
will not be examined.
This allows the system administrator to identify directories that
contain only files and sub directories that have all archive copies
and no changes will be made to the files or sub directories.  This
can dramatically reduce the work required to examine a file system.
.LP
4.  Read the .inodes file.  If an inode does not have "archdone"
set, determine the file name and examine the inode.  If a large percentage
of the files have status "archdone" set, this method is faster than the
.B scandirs
method.
.PP
.B "Determining the Archive Set"
.LP
In this step, the archiver determines the archive set to which
the file belongs using the file properties descriptions.
If the Archive Age of the file has been met or
exceeded, add the file to the archive request (ArchReq) for the Archive Set.
The ArchReq contains a 'batch' of files that can be archived together.
For segmented files, the segment, not the entire file, is the archivable
unit, so the properties (e.g. minimum file size) and priorities apply to
the segment.  The ArchReq-s are files in separate directories for each
filesystem.  I.e:
.BI /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver/ file_system /ArchReq
.  These are binary files,
and you can display them by using the showqueue(1M) command.  An ArchReq
is removed once the files it specifies have been archived.
.LP
The characteristics used for determining which Archive Set a file belongs in
are:
.TP
directory path portion of the file's name
.TP
complete file name using a regular expression
.TP
user name of the file's owner
.TP
group name of the file's owner
.TP
minimum file size
.TP
maximum file size

.LP
If a file is offline, select the volume to be used as the source for the
archive copy.  If the file copy is being rearchived, select that volume.
.LP
Each file is given a file archive priority.  The archive priority is computed
from properties of the file and property multipliers associated with the
Archive Set.  The computation is effectively:

.ft CO
.nf
    ArchivePriority = sum(Pn * Mn)
    
    where:  Pn = value of a file property
            Mn = property multiplier
.fi
.ft

Most property values are 1 or 0 as the property is TRUE or FALSE.  For
instance, the value of the property 'Copy 1' is 1 if archive copy 1 is being
made.  The values of 'Copy 2', 'Copy 3' and 'Copy 4' are therefore 0.

Others, such as 'Archive Age' and 'File size' may have values other than 0 or 1.

The archive priority and the Property multipliers are floating point numbers.
The default value for all property multipliers is 0.
.LP
The file properties used in the priority calculation are:
.TP 20
Archive Age
seconds since the file's Archive Age time reference  (time_now - time_ref)
.TP
Copy 1
archive copy 1 is being made
.TP
Copy 2
archive copy 2 is being made
.TP
Copy 3
archive copy 3 is being made
.TP
Copy 4
archive copy 4 is being made
.TP
Copies made
number of archive copies previously made
.TP
File size
size of the file in bytes
.TP
Archive immediate
immediate archival requested for file
.TP
Rearchive
archive copy is being rearchived
.TP
Required for release
archive copy is required before file may be released
.LP
All the priorities that apply for a file are added together. 
The priority of the ArchReq is set to the highest file priority in the
ArchReq.
.br
.po -5
.LP
When the filesystem scan is finished, send each ArchReq to sam-archiverd.


.B "Composing archive requests."
.LP
If the ArchReq requires automatic 'owner' Archive Sets, separate the
ArchReq by owner.
.LP
Sort the files according to the 'sort' method.  Sorting the files will
tend to keep the files together in the archive files.  The default is no
sorting so the files will be archived in the order encountered during
the file system scan.
.LP
Separate the ArchReq into online and offline files.  All the online files
will be archived together, and the offline files will be together.
.LP
The priority of each ArchReq created during this process is set to the highest
file priority in the ArchReq.  Enter the ArchReq into the scheduling queue
in priority order.


.B "Scheduling from the queue."
.LP
When an ArchReq is ready to be scheduled to an sam-arcopy, the volumes are
assigned to the candidate ArchReq-s as follows:
.br
.po +5
The volume that has most recently been used for the Archive Set is used
if there is enough space for the ArchReq.
.LP
If an ArchReq is too big for one volume, files that will fit on the volume
are selected for archival to that volume.  The remaining files will be
archived later.
.LP
An ArchReq with a single file that is too large to fit on one volume,
and is larger than 'ovflmin' will have additional volumes assigned as required.
The additional volumes are selected in order of decreasing size.  This is
to minimize the number of volumes required for the file.
.br
.po -5
.LP
For each candidate ArchReq, compute the a scheduling priority by adding
the archive priority to the following properties and the associated
multipliers:
.TP 20
Archive volume loaded
the first volume to be archived to is loaded in a drive
.TP
Files offline
the request contains offline files
.TP
Multiple archive volumes
the file being archived requires more than one volume
.TP
Multiple stage volumes
the file being archived is offline on more than one volume
.TP
Queue wait
seconds that the ArchReq has been queued
.TP
Stage volume loaded
the first volume that contains offline files is loaded in a drive
.LP
Enter each ArchReq into the archive queue in priority order.
Schedule only as many sam-arcopy-s as drives allowed in a robot or allowed by
the Archive Set.  When all sam-arcopy-s are busy, wait for an sam-arcopy to complete.
Repeat the scheduling sequence until all ArchReq-s are processed.
.LP
If the Archive Set specifies multiple drives, divide the request for
multiple drives.


.B "Assigning an ArchReq to an sam-arcopy."
.LP
Step through each ArchReq-s to mark the archive file boundaries so
that each archive file will be less than archmax in size.  If a file is larger
than archmax, it will be the only file in an archive file.

.SH "Using priorities to control order of archiving."

.PP
By default, all archiving priorities are set to zero.  You may change the
priorities by specifying property multipliers.  This allows you to control
the order in which files are archived.  Here are some examples (see
.BR archiver.cmd (4)):

.PP
You may cause the files within an archive file to be archived in priority
order by using
.BR "-sort priority" .

.PP
You may reduce the media loads and unloads with:
.B "-priority archive_loaded 1" 
and
.BR "-priority stage_loaded 1" .

.PP
You may cause online files to be archived before offline files with:
.BR "-priority offline -500" .

.PP
You may cause the archive copies to be made in order by using:
.BR "-priority copy1 4000" ,
.BR "-priority copy2 3000" ,
.BR "-priority copy3 2000" ,
.BR "-priority copy4 1000" .


.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
.LP
The archiver can produce a log file containing information about files archived
and unarchived.  Here is an example:
 
.ft CO
.nf
A 2000/06/02 15:23:41 mo OPT001 samfs1.1 143.1 samfs1 6.6 16384 lost+found d 0 51
A 2000/06/02 15:23:41 mo OPT001 samfs1.1 143.22 samfs1 19.3 4096 seg d 0 51
A 2000/06/02 15:23:41 mo OPT001 samfs1.1 143.2b samfs1 22.3 922337 rmfile R 0 51
A 2000/06/02 15:23:41 mo OPT001 samfs1.1 143.34 samfs1 27.3 11 system l 0 51
A 2000/06/02 15:23:41 mo OPT001 samfs1.1 143.35 samfs1 18.5 24 seg/aa I 0 51
A 2000/06/02 15:23:43 ib E00000 all.1 110a.1 samfs1 20.5 14971 myfile f 0 23
A 2000/06/02 15:23:44 ib E00000 all.1 110a.20 samfs1 26.3 10485760 seg/aa/1 S 0 23
A 2000/06/02 15:23:45 ib E00000 all.1 110a.5021 samfs1 25.3 10485760 seg/aa/2 S 0 23
A 2000/06/02 15:23:45 ib E00000 all.1 110a.a022 samfs1 24.3 184 seg/aa/3 S 0 23
A 2003/10/23 13:30:24 dk DISK01/d8/d16/f216 arset4.1 810d8.1 qfs2 119571.301 1136048 t1/fileem f 0 0
A 2003/10/23 13:30:25 dk DISK01/d8/d16/f216 arset4.1 810d8.8ad qfs2 119573.295 1849474 t1/fileud f 0 0
A 2003/10/23 13:30:25 dk DISK01/d8/d16/f216 arset4.1 810d8.16cb qfs2 119576.301 644930 t1/fileen f 0 0
A 2003/10/23 13:30:25 dk DISK01/d8/d16/f216 arset4.1 810d8.1bb8 qfs2 119577.301 1322899 t1/fileeo f 0 0
.fi
.ft
.TP 10
Field
Description
.TP
1
A for archived.
.br
R for re-archived;
.br
U for unarchived.
.TP
2
Date of archive action.
.TP
3
Time of archive action.
.TP
4
Archive media.
.TP
5
VSN.  For removable media cartridges, this is the volume serial name.
For disk archives, this is the disk volume name and archive tar file path.
.TP
6
Archive set and copy number.
.TP
7
Physical position of start of archive file on media and file offset
on the archive file / 512.
.TP
8
File system name.
.TP
9
Inode number and generation number.  The generation number is an additional
number used in addition to the inode number for uniqueness since inode
numbers get re-used.
.TP
10
Length of file if written on only 1 volume. Length of section if file
is written on multiple volumes.
.TP
11
Name of file.
.TP
12
Type of the file. File is of type \fIc\fR:
.RS
.IP d
directory
.IP f
regular file
.IP l
symbolic link
.IP R
removable media file
.IP I
segment index
.IP S
data segment
.RE
.TP
13
Section of an overflowed file/segment.
.TP
14
Equipment ordinal from the mcf of the device on which the archive copy was made.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR archiver (1M),
.BR archiver.cmd (4),
.BR sam-arcopy (1M),
.BR sam-arfind (1M)
