.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.na
.nh
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sambcheck 1M "21 Mar 2001"
.SH NAME
sambcheck \- Lists block use for a Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsambcheck\fR
\fIfs_name\fR
\fIblock_num\fR[\fB.\fIord\fR]\fR
\fR[\fIblock_num\fR[\fB.\fIord\fR]\fR]
\fR\&.\&.\&.
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsambcheck\fR command determines the current usage of each
requested \fIblock_num\fR in a Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun
StorEdge \%SAM-FS, or Sun \%SAM-QFS
file system.  This command must be run as root.
For accurate results, the file system should be unmounted.
.PP
This command accepts the following arguments:
.TP 10
\fIfsname\fR
The family set name, as specified in the \fBmcf\fR file,
for the file system for which the usage list is desired.
.TP
\fIblock_num\fR
A number that identifies the
blocks for which statistics should be obtained.
Blocks are in \%1024-byte (1 kilobyte) units.
Use one of the following formats:
.RS 10
.TP 2
\(bu
Decimal.  Default.
.TP
\(bu
Octal.  The \fIblock_num\fR must be preceded by \fB0\fR.
.TP
\(bu
Hexadecimal.  The \fIblock_num\fR must be preceded
by \fB0x\fR or \fB0X\fR.
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
\fIord\fR
The partition number (ordinal) upon which the block
use is to be found.  If no \&\fB.\fIord\fR is specified, all 
partitions are examined.  All \fIord\fR specifications are
assumed to be in decimal.
.SH OUTPUT
The output from this command is one line per requested block number
for each explicit or implicit ordinal.
The block number is displayed
as entered, followed by its decimal form in parentheses, followed by
text indicating the usage determined for
the \fIblock_num\fR[\fB\&.\fIord\fR].
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ft CO
bilbo# sambcheck samfs1 0x40 0x42.0 0x42.2 0x7a150 0x89cd0.01 512
block 0x40 (64.0) is a data block for .inodes containing 1 - 32 
block 0x40 (64.1) is a data block for directory inode 26.1 
block 0x40 (64.2) is a data block for inode 934767.1 
block 0x40 (64.4) is a data block for inode 934766.1 
block 0x42.0 (66.0) is a data block for .inodes containing 1 - 32 
block 0x42.2 (66.2) is a free data block
block 0x7a150 (500048.0) is a data block for .inodes containing 999969 - 1000000 
block 0x7a150 (500048.1) is a data block for directory inode 787628.1 
block 0x7a150 (500048.2) is a data block for inode 934767.1
block 0x7a150 (500048.4) is a free data block
block 0x89cd0.01 (564432.1) is an indirect block for inode 934767.1
block 512 (512.0) is a data block for .inodes containing 897 - 928 
block 512 (512.1) is a data block for directory inode 65.1 
block 512 (512.2) is a data block for inode 934767.1 
block 512 (512.4) is a data block for inode 934766.1 
.ft
.fi

