.\" $Revision: 1.15 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samchaid 1 "19 Oct 2001"
.SH NAME
samchaid \- change file admin set ID attribute
.na
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B samchaid
[
.B \-fhR
]
.RB aid
.IR filename .\|.\|.\|
.ad b
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B samchaid
sets the admin set ID attribute of files and directories.
.LP
If a directory's admin set ID is set, files and directories
subsequently created in that directory inherit that admin ID.
Only the superuser may set the admin ID.
.na
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Force.
Do not report errors.
.TP
.B \-h
If the file is a symbolic link,
change the admin set ID of the symbolic link.
Without this option,
the group of the file referenced by the symbolic link is changed.
.TP
.B \-R
Recursive.
samchaid descends through any directories and subdirectories,
setting the specified admin set ID as it proceeds.
When a symbolic link is encountered,
the admin set ID of the target file is changed
(unless the -h option is specified),
but no recursion takes place.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR samquota (1),
.BR sls (1)
