'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samcmd 1M "19 Feb 2002"
.SH NAME
samcmd \- Executes Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS operator utility commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI samcmd " command"
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWqfs
.br
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
\f3samcmd\f1 executes a single Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS operator 
utility command.
Its purpose is to provide shell script access to the commands
and displays available in
.BR samu (1M).
.LP
.B samcmd
uses the first argument as the \fBsamu\fR command or display name.  Succeeding
arguments are the arguments for that \fBsamu\fR command.
.SH COMMANDS
The syntax for the commands is identical to that shown in the COMMANDS
section of
.BR samu (1M).
Note that the colon (:) hot key is not required for samcmd to distinguish 
commands from displays.
.SH DISPLAYS
.B samcmd
can produce displays on standard output similar to those displayed by
.BR samu .
While for 
.B samu 
the information is paged to display a screen at a time if there is more
than one screen of information available,
.B samcmd
produces the entire amount of information for a given display.
Hence there is no need for equivalents of the control-f, control-b,
control-d, and control-u hotkeys.
Note that the formatting of the information may be slightly different on the 
.B samcmd
output file than on the
.B samu
display.  Since the format of the display control (single letter)
commands can be modified by other hotkeys under
.BR samu ,
some equivalents are provided for
.B samcmd
as follows:

.TS
tab (#) ;
 l l .
 Display#Arguments

a#filesystem
n#mediatype
p#mediatype 
r#mediatype
u#mediatype [path]
v#eq [sort] [I | I I] 
w#mediatype [path]
.TE
.fi
.sp
The sort selections for the v display are:
1 slot, 2 count, 3 usage, 4 VSN, 5 access time, 6 barcode, 7 label time.
Specifying a single I for the v display shows a two-line display with
the barcode, blocksize, etc. in the second line.  Specifying two I's
for the v display shows a two-line display with the archiver volume
reservation information in the second line.

.SH EXAMPLES
The following example loads a cartridge from slot 2 in automated library 30:
.ft CO
.nf

      samcmd load 30:2
.fi
.ft
.LP
The following example produces a detailed archiver display for filesystem
samfs3 on standard output:
.ft CO
.nf

      samcmd a samfs3
.fi
.ft
.LP
The following example produces a display, on standard output, of the
staging queue restricted to stages from media type "lt", showing the
full paths of the files to be staged. 
.ft CO
.nf

      samcmd u lt path
.fi
.ft
.LP
The following example produces a display of automated library 50's
catalog, with the archiver volume reservation information, on standard output:
.ft CO
.nf

      samcmd v 50 I I
.fi
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR samu (1M)
