.\" $Revision: 1.1 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samdb 1M "28 Jul 2008"
.SH NAME
samdb \- Sun StorEdge SAM-QFS sideband database commands file
.SH SYNOPSIS

.LP
.nf
\fBsamdb catvsn\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-c n\fR] [\fB-m media_type\fR] [\fB-nostore\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR] \fIvsn(s)\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsamdb check\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR]\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsamdb create\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-s schema_file\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsamdb dump\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-o\fR] [\-f file name\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsamdb listinode\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-nolabels\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR] \fIinode(s)\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsamdb listpath\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-p\fR | \fB-e\fR | \fB-b\fR] [\fB-nolabels\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR] \fIpath(s)\fR
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsamdb listvsn\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-m media_type\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR]
.fi

.LP
.nf
\fBsamdb load\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-g\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR] \fIinput_file(s)\fR
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The \fBsamdb\fR commands are used to configure and query a SAM-QFS MySQL
database. This database retains attribute and residency information 
for each file in the file system. Use of the SAM-QFS MySQL database implies
the SAM-QFS server has access to a MySQL server and that the MySQL client
libraries are installed. The SAM-QFS
server need not host the MySQL server as long as network access to the 
database host system is available. 
A configuration file, \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/samdb.conf\fR, contains the
access parameters for the database. 
.LP
Use of the SAM-QFS MySQL database is optional and is specified by the mount
option \fBsam_db\fR. If set, the \fBfsalogd daemon\fR is started at mount time.
The file system sends events to the fsalogd who writes the events to a
log file. A second daemon, \fBsam-dbupd\fR, reads the events from the fsalogd
log files and updates the SAM-QFS database. 
.LP
The database is initially populated by the \fBsamdb load(1M)\fR command. Input
to the \fBsamdb load\fR command is the load file. There are four methods for
creating a load file. 

.LP
\fBExample 1 \fRFrom an existing dumpfile.
.LP
.nf
\fB# samfsrestore -S -Z /tmp/samfs1/dbload -f /path/to/dump/samfs1.dump\fR
.fi

.LP
\fBExample 2 \fRWhile performing a samfsrestore.
.LP
.nf
\fB# samfsrestore -Z /tmp/samfs1dbload -f /path/to/dump/samfs1.dump\fR
.fi

.LP
\fBExample 3 \fRFrom a filesystem without creating a dumpfile. (Note,
generating this load file will take as long as generating a samfsdump.)
.LP
.nf
\fB# samfsdump -S -Z /tmp/samfs1.dbload\fR
.fi

.LP
\fBExample 4 \fRWhile performing a samfsdump.
.LP
.nf
\fB# samfsdump -Z /tmp/samfs1.dbload -f /path/to/dump/samfs1.dump\fR
.fi

.LP
Once the SAM-QFS MySQL database
is populated, the creation of a samfsdump file should improve
\fBsamfsdump(1M)\fR performance. The file created by a samfsdump -Y command
can be used as input to \fBsamfsrestore(1M)\fR.

.SH SAMDB COMMANDS
.LP
A series of commands are provided to configure and query the SAM-QFS MySQL
database. The specific options to the individual commands are listed below.
However, each command has common options which are described here.

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBfamily set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the family set name of the file system. This family set name must
be configured in the \fBsamdb.conf\fR file.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBhelp\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays a command syntax summary.
.RE

.sp 
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBversion\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Displays the command verson.
.RE

.sp 
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-v\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables verbose mode.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-V\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Enables debug mode. Most notably, this displays the query string
sent to the database engine.
.RE

.LP
Here is a list of the samdb commands and an explanation of the options.


.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsamdb catvsn\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-c n\fR] [\fB-m media_type\fR] [\fB-nostore\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR] \fIvsn(s)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Generates a list of files archived on a volume.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-c n\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
List all files with archive copy number \fB-n\fR on the specified volume.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m media_type\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Media type of specified volume. If no media type is specified then
the default media type is used or the database is searched for a
matching volume with a single entry.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-nostore\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Instructs MySQL to not use stored results. This option prevents updates
to the database while the output is being generated.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBvsn\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies the volume from which to list all archived files.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsamdb check\fR \fIfamily_set\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Checks the database against specified file system for consistency.  This
scans the inodes of the filesystem making sure the entries in the database
are correct. 
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBsamdb create\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-s schema_file\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR]
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
\fB\fB-s schema_file\fR\fR
Specifies the schema file to use. The default file is
/opt/SUNWsamfs/etc/samdb.schema. The schema file contains a series
of CREATE TABLE commands.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsamdb dump\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-o\fR] [\fB-f file name\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR]
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Generates a list of files for samfsdump. 
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-o\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies path only. Do not output inode or generation numbers
with the path.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-f file name\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Specifies file to send output to. If a file is not supplied, output goes to
standard out. 
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsamdb listinode\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-nolabels\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR] \fIinode(s)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print all records for a given list of inodes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-nolabels\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not print field name labels
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBinode\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Inode numbers of records to print. 
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsamdb listpath\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-p\fR | \fB-e\fR | \fB-f\fR] [\fB-nolabels\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR] \fIpath(s)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Print all records for a list of path names.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-p\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lookup all records which partially match the specified path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-e\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lookup all records which exactly match the specified path.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-b\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Lookup all records which match both the path and file name.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-nolabels\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Do not print field name labels
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fBpath(s)\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Path to list. Paths may be specified as either full paths or
as a path relative to the mount point.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsamdb listvsn\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-m media_type\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR]
Lists all volumes.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-m media_type\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Media type of specified volume. If no media type is specified then
the default media type is used or the database is searched for a
matching volume with a single entry.
.RE

.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fBsamdb load\fR \fIfamily_set\fR [\fB-g\fR] [\fB-r\fR] [\fB-v\fR | \fB-V\fR] \fIinput_file(s)\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Loads a database from a samfsdump file.
.RE

.sp 
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-g\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
Show progress. Generate a hash mark for each 1000 files processed.
.RE

.sp
.ne 2
.mk
.na
\fB\fB-r\fR\fR
.ad
.sp .6
.RS 4n
This option restores the database with the new inode/generation 
numbers which have been assigned. This action is performed after a
samfsrestore.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsamdb.conf(4)\fR
\fBsamfsdump(1M)\fR
\fBsamfsrestore(1M)\fR
