.\" $Revision: 1.22 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH samd 1M "02 Aug 2007"
.SH NAME
samd \- SAM daemon management and configuration command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samd \fIbuildmcf\fR
.PP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samd \fIconfig\fR
.PP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samd \fIstart\fR
.PP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samd \fIstop\fR
.PP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samd \fIhastop\fR
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsamd\fR utility starts up or shuts down the \%\fBsam-amld\fR daemon,
or shuts down the \%\fBHSM daemons\fR for HA-SAM failover.
This utility can also be used to reinitialize the Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS,
and Sun \%SAM-QFS configuration files and allow changes to take effect.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 10
.B  buildmcf
Creates a new \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fR file if one does not exist.
This is useful when configuring shared clients for the first time, after
the file systems have been created on the metadata server.  Only
disk devices will be discovered and entered into the mcf.
.TP 10
.B  config
Causes the \%\fBsam-fsd\fR daemon to (re)configure based
on changes to the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fR, \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd\fR,
and \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/defaults.conf\fR files.
.TP 10
.B  start
Starts up the \%\fBsam-amld\fR daemon if the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fR
file exists and the \%\fBsam-amld\fR daemon is not already running.
Implemented only in Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
Not a valid argument in a Sun StorEdge QFS environment.
.TP 10
.B  stop
Kills the \%\fBsam-amld\fR daemon.
Implemented only in Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
Not a valid argument in a Sun StorEdge QFS environment.
.TP 10
.B  hastop
Kills the \%\fBsam-archiverd\fR, \%\fBsam-stagealld\fR, \%\fBsam-stagerd\fR
and \%\fBsam-amld\fR daemon for HA-SAM failover.
Daemons killed by 'hastop' will not be restarted by the \%\fBsam-fsd\fR.
Implemented only in Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
Not a valid argument in a Sun StorEdge QFS environment.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sam-fsd (1M),
.BR sam-amld (1M).
.PP
.BR defaults.conf (4),
.BR mcf (4).
