.\" $Revision: 1.14 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samdev 1M "31 Dec 1997"
.SH NAME
samdev \- Adds
.B /dev/samst
entries for media changers and optical disks attached to the system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samdev [-d]
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-d 
Print descriptive messages when creating each symbolic link.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "samdev" "" "\fLsamdev\fP \(em adds /dev/samst entries for media changers and optical disks"
.B samdev
creates symbolic links in the 
.B /dev/samst
directory pointing to the actual device special files under the 
.B /devices
directory tree.
It performs the following steps:
.TP 4
1.
The 
.B /dev/samst
directory is checked for device entries \- that is,
symbolic links with names of the form
.BI c N\c
.BI t X\c
.BI u N\c
,
where
.I N
represents a decimal number, and
.I X
represents a hexadecimal number.

.BI c N
is the logical controller number, an
arbitrary number assigned by this program to designate a particular
controller. 
The first controller found  on the first occasion this program is run
on a system, is assigned number 0. This number may not be the same number
as the number assigned by the 
.BR disks (1M)
program.
.BI t X
is the SCSI 
.B target
for the device.
.BI u N
is the SCSI logical unit number of the device at this SCSI
target.
Each entry's symbolic link is read and placed in an internal pathname
table.
.TP 4
2.
Searches the 
.B /devices 
directory searching for devices that are supported by
.BR samst (7).
It adds the
pathnames for the devices to the table built in step 1.
.TP
3.
.B samdev 
then traverses the pathname table and builds symbolic links in
.B /dev/samst
for each device in the table.
.PP
.B samdev
should be executed each time the system is reconfiguration-booted.
An entry can be added to the
.B /etc/init.d/devlinks
file after the entry for /usr/sbin/tapes to automate this process.
.B samdev
can only be run after
.BR drvconfig (1M)
is run, since
.BR drvconfig (1M)
builds the 
.B /devices
tree.
.PP
This utility does not apply to Fibre Channel devices.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/samst/\(**
entries for general use
.TP
.B /devices/\(**
device nodes
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR disks (1M),
.BR devlinks (1M),
.BR drvconfig (1M),
.BR ports (1M),
.BR tapes (1M)
