." $Revision: 1.24 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems 
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samfsck 1M  "05 May 2004"
.SH NAME
samfsck \- Checks and repairs a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B samfsck
[
.B \-s
.I scratch_dir
]
[
.B \-F 
[
.B \-R
]
]
[
.B \-G
]
[
.B \-S
]
[
.B \-U
]
[
.B \-V
]
[
.B \-p
]
.I fs_name
.PD
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B samfsck
command checks and optionally repairs a Sun StorEdge QFS or Sun
StorEdge \%SAM-FS file system from the disk partitions 
that belong to
.I fs_name.
For \fIfs_name\fR, specify either a family set name from the
.B mcf
file or a mount point absolute path name from the
.B /etc/vfstab
file.
One or more disk partitions are specified in the
.B mcf
file.  If no options are specified,
.B samfsck
checks and reports, but does not repair, all the blocks
that belong to inodes and lists inodes which have duplicate blocks.
.B samfsck
also checks inodes which have blocks that are free blocks.
If only one inode is listed in the duplicate list, that inode
contains a block that is also free.
To repair the file system, the file system must be 
.I unmounted,
and the \fB-F\fR option specified.
.LP
If there are files encountered that are not attached to a parent directory,
they will be moved to the /\fImount_point\fP/lost+found directory.
If this directory does not exist, you must create this directory 
first and make it sufficently large
to hold the expected number of disconnected files if you wish this
to happen.  Here is how to do this in the Bourne shell for a SAM
file system mounted on /sam:

.ft CO
.nf
/bin/mkdir /sam/lost+found
cd /sam/lost+found
N=0
while [ $N -lt 1024 ]; do
    touch TMPFILE$N
    N=`expr $N + 1`
done
rm TMPFILE*
.fi
.ft
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-s " scratch_dir"
Specifies the scratch directory.  If specified, this directory is used for the
scratch files that are used.  The default scratch directory is /tmp.
.TP
.B \-F 
Check and repair the file system. 
For all inodes that have duplicate blocks, mark those inodes offline
if they have been archived.
If the file system is not \fIunmounted\fR
\fBsamfsck\fR will exit with an error.
.TP
.B \-G
Generate directory entry hash.
In SAM-FS 3.5.0 and above, a hash code was added to directory 
entries to speed up directory searches. This is particularly useful
for longer file names. The \fB-G\fP option, when used in conjunction
with the \fB-F\fP option, will modify directory entries which do not
have a proper hash value to have a hash. When the \fB-G\fP option is 
used without the \fB-F\fP option, the number of directory entries which
could be hashed is reported.
The presence of a hash
value has no effect on versions of SAM-FS prior to 3.5.0.
.TP
.B \-S
Convert the filesystem from a non-shared filesystem to
a shared filesystem.
This option is only available to filesystems with a version 2 superblock.
The \fB-F\fR option must also be specified to convert a filesystem.
This will cause \fBsamfsck\fR to update the on-disk structures
to make the filesystem shared.
Note that \fBsamfsck\fR does not update the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR entry
(see \fBvfstab\fR(4)), the \fBmcf\fR entry (see \fBmcf\fR(4)),
or the shared hosts file (see \fBsamsharefs\fR(1M)) for the filesystem,
nor does it configure the \fBservices\fR file (see \fBservices\fR(4)) for
shared SAM operations.
These must be configured and updated after the filesystem is converted
to mount the filesystem.
.TP
.B \-U
Convert the filesystem from a shared filesystem to
a non-shared filesystem.
The \fB-F\fR option must also be specified to convert a filesystem.
The on-disk structures of the filesystem are updated to
make the filesystem non-shared.
Note that \fBsamfsck\fR does not update the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR entry
(see \fBvfstab\fR(4)), or the \fBmcf\fR entry (see \fBmcf\fR(4)).
These must be configured and updated after the filesystem is converted
to mount the filesystem.
.TP
.B \-V
Turns on a verbose display of DEBUG information. This information is useful
to Sun Microsystems analysts.
.TP
.B \-R
Rename the file system.
When specified along with the -F option, the -R option will rewrite the
super block with the disk cache family set name found in /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf.
No action will be taken if the -R option is used without the -F option. It is
important that \fBsam\-fsd\fR be notified after any change to
/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf (see \fBsamd\fR(1M)).
.TP
.B -p
Return an indication of the filesystem's health.
Non-zero return indicates that the filesystem should not be mounted
without first using \fBsamfsck\fR to check and repair the filesystem
(see EXIT STATUS).
A zero return value indicates that the filesystem can be mounted
immediately.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
The following exit values are returned:
.TP 10
.B 0
The filesystem is consistent.
.TP
.B 4
Nonfatal: Filesystem block counts need to be reconciled.
.TP
.B 5
Nonfatal: Filesystem blocks can be reclaimed.
.TP
.B 10
Nonfatal: Orphan inodes can be moved to lost+found.
.TP 10
.B 20
Fatal: invalid directory blocks exist, overlapping blocks mapped to 
2 inodes exist. Files/directories will be marked offline if an
archive copy exists or damaged if no archive copy exists.
.TP
.B 30
Fatal: I/O Errors occurred, but \fBsamfsck\fR kept processing. Filesystem is 
not consistent.
.TP
.B 35
Fatal: Argument errors terminated \fBsamfsck\fR.
.TP
.B 36
Fatal: Malloc errors terminated \fBsamfsck\fR.
.TP
.B 37
Fatal: Device errors terminated \fBsamfsck\fR.
.TP
.B 40
Fatal: Filesystem superblock is invalid.
.TP
.B 45
Fatal: Filesystem .inodes file is invalid.
.TP
.B 50
Fatal: I/O Errors terminated \fBsamfsck\fR.
.TP
.B 55
Nonfatal:  The
.B -p
option was specified, and the filesystem should be
checked and repaired prior to mounting.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
The configuration file for
.B samfs
.TP
.B /etc/vfstab
File system defaults table
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR samd (1M).
.BR samsharefs (1M).
.PP
.BR mcf (4),
.BR services (4),
.BR vfstab (4).
