.\" $Revision: 1.23 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH samfsconfig 1M "7 Jan 2009"
.SH NAME
samfsconfig \- Recovers configuration information
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samfsconfig\fR
\%[\fB\-b\fR]
\%[\fB\-d\fR]
\%[\fB\-h\fR]
\%[\fB\-s\fR]
\%[\fB\-v\fR]
\fIdevice\fR
\%[\fIdevice\fR]
\&...
.SH AVAILABILITY
.nf
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsamfsconfig\fR utility
opens the \fIdevice\fR(s) listed on the command line,
attempts to read the Sun StorEdge \%QFS file system
superblock on each,
and generates output in a format similar to an
editable \fBmcf\fR(4) file.
A \fISun StorEdge \%QFS file system superblock\fR is a record that
the \fBsammkfs\fR(1M) utility writes to the beginning of every
device in a Sun StorEdge \%QFS file system.
This record identifies the devices to the file system.
.PP
By default, the output is written to \fBstdout\fR, but the
output can be redirected to a file and edited
to regenerate the file system portions of the \fBmcf\fR file
in the event of a system reconfiguration or disaster.

\fBsamd buildmcf\fR executes samfsconfig to build the mcf file.
\fBsamd config\fR must be executed to install the new configuration
after the \fBsamd buildmcf\fR has built the mcf file.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 10
\fB\-b\fR
Lists the size of the associated partition,
according to its superblock,
in an extra output column.
This may be useful when multiple disk partitions of different
sizes start at the same offset.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Generates detailed information about all the
Sun StorEdge \%QFS
superblocks found,
including the content of each superblock.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Generates a usage message and exits.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Print the host file contents of QFS shared filesystems.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Generates messages regarding the disposition of each \fIdevice\fR.
.TP
\fIdevice\fR
One or more \fIdevice\fR identifiers from which
configuration information is to be
recovered.
Use a space character to separate multiple \fIdevice\fR
identifiers on the command line.
.sp
It can be desireable to save a list of \fIdevice\fR identifiers to a file
and use this file for command line input to the program.
.PP
The \fBsamfsconfig\fR utility
generates information about all the
Sun StorEdge \%QFS file systems
and file system components it finds.
It flags irregularities as follows:
.TP 2
\(bu
It prefixes any incomplete file system components with
a pound sign (\fB#\fR) to indicate problems.
.TP
\(bu
It prefixes any duplicate devices discovered with a \%greater-than
sign (\fB>\fR).
This is common if, for instance, multiple paths exist or whole disk
partitions are specified on the command line.
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1.
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
ceres# samfsconfig /dev/dsk/*

#
# Family Set 'samfs5' Gen 0 Created Fri Dec 19 20:17:48 2008
#
# zoned-off or missing metadata device
#
# Missing slices
# nodev        501    mm   samfs5  -
# Ordinal 9
#/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd1s2    512    g7   samfs5  -

#
# Family Set 'samfs5' Gen 1 Created Tue Dec 23 16:41:07 2008
#
# Missing slices
# Ordinal 0
#/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd2s6    501    mm   samfs5  -
# Ordinal 1
#/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd1s6    502    mr   samfs5  -
# Ordinal 2
#/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd0s6    503    mr   samfs5  -
# Ordinal 3
#/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd3s6    504    mr   samfs5  -

#
# Family Set 'samfs4' Gen 0 Created Sat Dec 27 19:55:08 2008
#
# Foreign byte order (super-blocks byte-reversed).
#
# Missing slices
# Ordinal 0
#/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd3s2    25    mm   samfs4  -

#
# Family Set 'samfs1' Gen 0 Created Sat Dec 27 19:56:26 2008
#
# Foreign byte order (super-blocks byte-reversed).
#
# Missing slices
# Ordinal 0
#/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd2s0    101    mm   samfs1  -

#
# Family Set 'samfs5' Gen 2 Created Fri Jan  2 16:16:05 2009
#
# zoned-off or missing metadata device
#
# Missing slices
# nodev        501    mm   samfs5  -
# Ordinal 6
#/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd0s3    507    mr   samfs5  -
# Ordinal 7
#/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd2s2    508    mr   samfs5  -

#
# Family Set 'samfs5' Gen 2 Created Fri Jan  2 20:53:38 2009
#
samfs5 500 ma samfs5 - shared
/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd1s5    501    mm   samfs5  -
/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd0s5    502    mr   samfs5  -
/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd3s3    503    mr   samfs5  -
/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd1s4    504    mr   samfs5  -
/dev/dsk/c2t200400A0B82AC18Bd0s4    505    mr   samfs5  -

.fi
.ft
.PP
Example 2.
Another example, this from a saved list of devices:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
ceres# samfsconfig -v `cat /tmp/dev_files`
Device '/dev/dsk/c1t0d0s0' has a QFS superblock.
Device '/dev/dsk/c1t0d0s1' has a QFS superblock.
Couldn't open '/dev/dsk/c1t0d0s3';  errno=5.
Device '/dev/dsk/c1t2d0s0' has a QFS superblock.
Device '/dev/dsk/c1t2d0s1' has a QFS superblock.
Device '/dev/dsk/c1t4d0s0' has a QFS superblock.
Device '/dev/dsk/c1t4d0s1' has a QFS superblock.
Couldn't open '/dev/dsk/c1t4d0s3';  errno=5.
Couldn't open '/dev/dsk/c1t4d0s4';  errno=5.
Couldn't open '/dev/dsk/c1t4d0s5';  errno=5.
Device '/dev/dsk/c2t7d0s0' has a QFS superblock.
Device '/dev/dsk/c2t7d0s6' has a QFS superblock.
Device '/dev/dsk/c3t0d0s3' has a QFS superblock.
9 QFS devices found.

#
# Family Set 'samfs1' Gen 0 Created Tue Aug  1 16:57:24 2008
#
# Missing slices
# Ordinal 2
# /dev/dsk/c1t4d0s1    23    mr   samfs1  -

#
# Family Set 'qfs1' Gen 0 Created Thu Aug 10 19:04:56 2008
#
# Missing slices
# Ordinal 0
# /dev/dsk/c1t4d0s0    11    mm   qfs1  -

#
# Family Set 'samfs1' Gen 0 Created Wed Feb 21 20:21:04 2008
#
samfs1 10 ma samfs1 -
/dev/dsk/c2t7d0s0    11    mm   samfs1  -
/dev/dsk/c2t7d0s6    12    mr   samfs1  -

#
# Family Set 'qfs1' Gen 0 Created Thu Feb 22 12:49:10 2008
#
qfs1 ma 20 qfs1
/dev/dsk/c3t0d0s3    21    mm   qfs1  -
/dev/dsk/c1t0d0s0    24    g0   qfs1  -
/dev/dsk/c1t0d0s1    25    g0   qfs1  -
/dev/dsk/c1t2d0s0    26    g2   qfs1  -
/dev/dsk/c1t2d0s1    27    g2   qfs1  -

.fi
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsammkfs\fR(1M)
\fBsamd\fR(1M)
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(4)
