.\" $Revision: 1.15 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH samquotastat 1M "23 Apr 2003"
.SH NAME
samquotastat \- Reports on active and inactive file system quotas
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsamquotastat\fR
\%[\fB\-a\fR]
\%[\fB\-g\fR]
\%[\fB\-h\fR]
\%[\fB\-u\fR]
\%\fIfile\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsamquotastat\fR command reports whether user, group, or admin set quotas
are enabled on the file system that contains \fIfile\fR.
If only the \fIfile\fR argument is specified, output is generated as if
the \%\fB-a\fR, \%\fB-g\fR, and \%\fB-u\fR arguments had all been specified.
This command accepts the following arguments:
.TP 10
\%\fB\-a\fR
Generates information on admin set quotas.
.TP
\%\fB\-g\fR
Generates information on group quotas.
.TP
\%\fB\-h\fR
Generates a brief usage summary.
.TP
\%\fB\-u\fR
Generates information on user quotas.
.TP
\%\fIfile\fR
Specify either a specific file name, a path to a file,
or the file system mount point.
If a file name or path to a file is specified,
the command generates the report for the
file system in which the file resides.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.ft CO
server% samquotastat /qfs1
admin quota enabled
group quota enabled
user quota disabled
.ft
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
This command exits with a status of zero if any queried quota types are enabled.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsquota\fR(1).
.PP
\fBsamquota\fR(1M), \fBsamfsck\fR(1M).
.SH NOTES
