.\" $Revision: 1.1 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH samservicetag 1M "20 June 2008"
.SH NAME
samservicetag \- Adds or deletes Service Tags for a Sun StorEdge QFS or
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS file system.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B samservicetag
[\fBadd|delete\fR]
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B samservicetag
command adds or deletes service tags for the Sun StorEdge QFS
or Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS file system software.  One service tag
for QFS and optionally one for \%SAM-FS is installed per system.
See man stclient for more information on service tags.
.LP
The
.B samservicetag
command must be run as root.  This command is not intended
to be run separately, but rather is invoked from QFS or \%SAM-FS
directly.  An "samservicetag add" operation is done either at "samd config",
"samd start", or when a file system is mounted.  A "samservicetag delete"
operation is done when the QFS or \%SAM-FS package is deleted.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 14
\fIadd\fR
This option will add service tags to the repository depending upon
which QFS or \%SAM-FS package is installed.  If the SUNWqfs package is
installed, a QFS service tag is added.  If the SUNWsamfs package is installed,
both a QFS and \%SAM-FS service tag is added.
.TP
\fIdelete\fR
This option deletes all QFS or \%SAM-FS service tags in the repository.
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CO
.nf
# samservicetag add
# samservicetag delete
.fi
.ft
