'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.7 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH samstorade 1M "23 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
samstorade \- StorADE API
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsamstorade\fR
\%\fB\[-r hostname]\fR
\%\fB\[-t timeout]\fR
\%\fB\[-s xml_message]\fR
\%\fB\[-d]\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The samstorade program is a XML interface for the Sun StorADE
(Storage Automated Diagnostic Environment) program to access SAM-QFS
attributes and health information.
.PP
The XML interface uses messages contained in the message DTD
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/doc/\fImessage.dtd\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBsamstorade\fR command can be customized with the following options:
.TP 10
\%\fB\-r hostname\fR
Specifies remote SAM-QFS host to query.  The default hostname is "localhost".
.TP 10
\%\fB\-t timeout\fR
Specifies response timeout in milliseconds.  The default timeout value is
5 seconds.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-s xml_message\fR
Specifies a valid XML message defined by the message DTD
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/doc/\fImessage.dtd\fR that is sent to the sam-amld
daemon.  An example message that can be sent is <message id="devent" version="1.0"/>.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-d\fR
This is the default behavior for the \fBsamstorade\fR command.  The 
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/doc/\fImessage.dtd\fR message wrapper is removed
returning the \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/doc/\fIsamfm.dtd\fR message payload.
.fi
.ft
.RE
'\" .SH ATTRIBUTES
'\" .LP
'\" See 
'\" .BR attributes (5) 
'\" for descriptions of the following attributes:
'\" .TS
'\" box;
'\" cbp-1 | cbp-1
'\" l | l .
'\" ATTRIBUTE TYPE	ATTRIBUTE VALUE
'\" =
'\" Availability	\f(CWSUNWsamfs\f1
'\" .TE
'\" .sp
'\"
.SH FILES
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samstorade\fR
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/doc/message.dtd\fR
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/doc/samfm.dtd\fR
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/doc/pkg.mod\fR
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/doc/devent.mod\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBStorADE\fR,
\fBrasagent\fR(1M),
