.\" $Revision: 1.26 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samtrace 1M "27 January 2009"
.SH NAME
samtrace \- Dumps the Sun QFS or Sun \%SAM-QFS trace buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
.B samtrace
[
.B \-d
.I corefile
.B \-n
.I namelist
]
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-t
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-V
]
[
.B \-f
]
.PP
.B samtrace
.B \-k
.I suffix
[
.B \-s
]
[
.B \-v
]
[
.B \-V
]
[
.B \-f
]
.PP
.B samtrace
.B \-O
.I file
.PP
.B samtrace
.B \-I
.I file
[
.B \-f
]
.PP
.B samtrace
.B -c
.I file
[
.B -b
.I bufs
]
[
.B -p
.I secs
]
[
.B -T
.I ticks
]
.PP
.B samtrace
.B -i
.I file
[
.B -f
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWqfs
.PP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B samtrace
dumps the contents of the trace buffer for the
mounted file system.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b \fIbufs\fP
When used with the \fB-c\fR option, this sets the number of
per-CPU trace read buffers allocated by \fBsamtrace\fR to \fIbufs\fR.
The value of \fIbufs\fR must be at least 3, and must be no more
than 64.  The default is 5.
.TP
.B \-c \fIfile\fP
Trace entries are continuously copied from the live kernel into \fIfile\fR
until the command is killed.
Periodically, \fIfile\fR is written with the binary contents of
the kernel trace buffer; the kernel trace buffer's contents are
cleared after each copy is made.
The entries in \fIfile\fR are written in time order, oldest first.
.TP
.B \-d \fIcorefile\fP
The name of the corefile containing an image of
the system memory.  If no \fIcorefile\fR is specified the
default is to use the \fB/dev/mem\fR or \fB/dev/kmem\fR file
from the running system.
.TP
.B \-n \fInamelist\fP
The name of the namelist file corresponding to the
corefile.  If none is specified the default is to
use \fB/dev/ksyms\fR from the running system.
.TP
.B \-k \fIsuffix\fP
Indicates that the corefile and namelist have the names
\'vmcore.\fIsuffix\fR\' and \'unix.\fIsuffix\fR\', respectively.
.TP
.B \-i \fIfile\fP
\fIfile\fR must be a file created with the \fB-c\fR continuous
trace option.
\fBsamtrace\fR reads \fIfile\fR and writes a readable copy of
the binary records in \fIfile\fR to the standard output.
.TP
.B -I \fIfile\fP
\fIfile\fP must be a file created with the \fB-O\fR trace option.
\fBsamtrace\fR reads \fIfile\fR and writes a sorted, readable copy
of the binary records in \fIfile\fR to the standard output.
.TP
.B -O \fIfile\fP
The system trace buffers are copied to \fIfile\fR.
This file can later be translated for human interpretation
with the \fB-I\fR option.
.TP
.B \-p \fIsecs\fP
When used with the \fB-c\fR option,
sets an alarm signal for \fIsecs\fR seconds after \fBsamtrace\fR
starts.
This allows for automatic termination of continuous samtrace operation.
.TP
.B \-s
Dumps the sam-amld command queue.  Includes -v output.
.TP
.B \-T \fIticks\fR
When used with the \fB-c\fR option, sets the default interval
between reads of the kernel trace buffer to \fIticks\fR scheduler ticks.
The contents of the kernel trace buffers are by default copied
to a \fBsamtrace\fR buffer whenever the trace buffer fills half-way,
or 100 ticks (1 second) has passed, whichever occurs first.
.TP
.B \-t
Suppress trace output.  When specified alone, displays only table
address information.  Typically used in conjunction
with -v or -V to see verbose information without traces.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose option, excluding inode free and hash chains.
.TP
.B \-V
Verbose option, including inode free and hash chains.
Includes -v output.
.TP
.B \-f
Decodes flag bits in the trace output.
.SH NOTE
.B samtrace
is a utility that is used to provide Sun Microsystems
analysts with troubleshooting information.
It is not
intended for general use at your site.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /dev/kmem
Special file that is an image of the
kernel virtual memory of the computer.
.TP
.B /dev/mem
Special file that is an image of the
physical memory of the computer.
.TP
.B /dev/ksyms
Character special file of kernel symbols.
.PD
