'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH samunhold 1M "22 Feb 2001"
.SH NAME
samunhold \- Releases SANergy file holds
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samunhold\fR
\fImntpoint\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsamunhold\fR command can be used to release SANergy file holds.
These holds can be detected when attempts are made to unmount a file
system with the \fBumount\fR(1M) command.  If holds are present,
the \fBumount\fR(1M) command generates log messages such as the
following:
.PP
.ft CO
Inode XXXX: held by SAN, refcnt = N
.ft
.PP
SANergy File Sharing uses the following two types of leases,
both of which require holds:
.TP 2
\(bu
Read leases, which typically expire within a few seconds.
.TP
\(bu
Write leases, which can extend for as long as an hour.
.PP
It is preferable to allow SANergy File Sharing to clean up the leases,
but in
an emergency, or in case of a SANergy File Sharing system
failure, the administrator
can use the \fBsamunhold\fR command to avoid a reboot.
.PP
The \fBsamunhold\fR command
should only be run when SANergy File Sharing has held inodes
and is preventing a file system from being unmounted.
Prior to executing this command, the administrator
should ensure the following:
.TP 2
\(bu
There are no SANergy applications running on any
client, possibly including the server itself.
.TP
\(bu
The file system in question is not fused on any SANergy clients.
.TP
\(bu
The file system is not NFS mounted.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBsamunhold\fR command
releases all held inodes (files) on the file system whose root
directory is the named \fImntpoint\fR argument.
The \fBsamunhold\fR command must be run as root.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example shows the \fBsamunhold\fR command:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
bilbo# samunhold /sam1
bilbo# umount /sam1
.ft
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBumount\fR(1M).

