.\" $Revision: 1.10 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH save_core.sh 1M "12 Jan 2004"
.na
.nh
.SH NAME
save_core.sh \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS \fBsam-robotsd\fR(1M) exception notification script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/save_core.sh
\fIprg_name\fR
\fIpid\fR
\fIseverity\fR
\fImsg_no\fR
\fImsg\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/save_core.sh
script is executed by \fBsam-robotsd\fR(1M) after it encounters abnormal
or exceptional events.  A \%site-specific version of this script can be 
substituted in the installed location.
.PP
This script labels core files and prevents existing core files from
being overwritten as more are generated.
As released, 
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/save_core.sh
renames the \fBsam-robotsd\fR(1M) child core
files to include the program name, process ID, and date.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBsam-robotsd\fR(1M) daemon executes
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/save_core.sh
with the following arguments:
.TP 10
\fIprg_name\fR
The name of the program that is calling this script.
.TP
\fIpid\fR
The process ID of the program that is calling this script.
.TP
\fIseverity\fR
A keyword that identifies the severity and the
.B syslog
level of the event.  The keywords are as follows:
\fBemerg\fR, \fBalert\fR, \fBcrit\fR, \fBerr\fR, \fBwarning\fR,
\fBnotice\fR, \fBinfo\fR, and \fBdebug\fR.
.TP
\fImsg_no\fR
The message number as found in the message catalog.
.TP
\fImsg\fR
The text of the translated message string.
This script expects this message to be in a \%2-field
format.  The first field indicates the program that caused
the core dump.  The second field is the process ID of the program
that caused the core dump.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sam-robotsd (1M).
