." $Revision: 1.16 $ 
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems 
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH scsi_trace_decode 1M  "26 Jan 1998"
.SH NAME
scsi_trace_decode \- Decodes files produced by enabling the \fBtrace_scsi\fR option
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/tools/scsi_trace_decode\fR
\%\fB-f\ \fItrace_file\fR
[\fIeq_id\fR]
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamtp\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBscsi_trace_decode\fR command decodes the raw SCSI trace file
produced when the \fBdebug trace_scsi\fR option
in the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file
is enabled.  
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 10
\fB-f\ \fItrace_file\fR
Specifies the trace file.  Enter a full path name for the trace file.
Typically, the trace file is \fB/tmp/sam_scsi_trace_\fIml_eq_id\fR,
where \fIml_eq_id\fR is the Equipment Ordinal of the library
that contains the devices being traced.
.sp
For example, assume that you have two libraries.
Their Equipment Ordinals are 20 and 50.
Each library has two tape drives, and their Equipment Ordinals
are 21, 22, 51, and 52.
You could specify that trace information for devices 20, 21, and 22 go
to file \fB/tmp/sam_scsi_trace_20\fR and that trace information for
devices 50, 51, and 52 go to file \fB/tmp/sam_scsi_trace_50\fR.
.TP
\fIeq_id\fR
Shows entries in \fItrace_file\fR for the device identified
by Equipment Ordinal \fIeq_id\fR only.
The default is to show entries for all Equipment Ordinals in this trace file.
.SH EXAMPLE OUTPUT
.ft CO
.nf
  eq41 Issue 09:22:45 8   cdb: 1b 00 00 00  00 00 00 00  00 00 0000
       Load unload

  eq41 Reply 09:22:45 8   cdb: 1b 00 00 00  00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00
       Load unload
       sense: 71 00 04 00  00 00 00 48  00 00 00 00  44 00 f4 03  0e 16 00 41
               Sense key 04, ASC 44, ASCQ 00
               Internal target failure
.fi
.ft
.PP
The various components of the preceding output are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBOutput\fR
\fBMeaning\fR
.TP
\fBeq41\fR
The equipment number involved in the command or completion.
.TP
\fBIssue\fR
The scsi command has been issued.
.TP
\fBReply\fR
The command completed.  Completion status is shown.
.TP
\fB09:22:45\fR
The time of day when the command was sent or received.
.TP
\fB8\fR
The file descriptor upon which the command was issued.
Not useful for \%non-Sun Microsystems analysts.
.TP
\fBcdb\fR
The cdb (command descriptor block): the scsi command issued.
.TP
\fBsense\fR
The sense data.
If the command erred, then sense data is obtained and displayed.
If the command did not err, then this field is all zero.
.TP
\fBSense key \&.\&.\&.\fR
Decoded sense data, showing the sense key, additional
sense code, and additional sense code qualifier.
These values define the error that occurred.
.TP
\fBInternal target failure\fR
The ASCII representation of the ASC, ASCQ information.
.fi
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR defaults.conf (4)
