.\" $Revision: 1.10 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH set_admin 1M "30 Dec 2003"
.SH NAME
set_admin \- Sets administrator privileges for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS  
and Sun \%SAM-QFS commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B set_admin
[
.I sam_admin_group
]
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B set_admin
changes the group and permissions of many of the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS 
and Sun StorEdge QFS administrator
commands so they can be executed by users in a selected administrator group.
You must be logged in as root to execute this command.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following argument:
.TP 10
\fIsam_admin_group\fR
Specify 
the administrator group for the
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun StorEdge QFS administrator 
commands.  If you wish
to change the administrator group back to the default,
specify \fBbin\fR as the \fIsam_admin_group\fR.
If you do not specify a \fIsam_admin_group\fR,
you are prompted to enter it.
.SH NOTES
If you change the administrator group from the default group, \fBbin\fR,
and subsequently run the \fBpkgchk\fR(1M) command on the 
the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun StorEdge QFS packages,
the \fBpkgchk\fR(1M) command issues ERROR messages for the
commands modified by \fBset_admin\fR(1M).
.PP
You can ignore these messages.  The \fBpkgchk\fR(1M) command issues
them because it detects that the group name that is associated with
the commands is different from what it was at installation time.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBpkgchk\fR(1M)
