.\" $Revision: 1.18 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH set_state 1M "01 Aug  2006"
.SH NAME
set_state \- Set device state
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/set_state
[
.B -w
]
.I state
.I eq
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B set_state
will change the state of a removable media device \fIeq\fP to \fIstate\fP.
If
.B \-w
is specified,
the command will wait for the operation to complete before
terminating. Note:
.B set_state
cannot be used to change a file system partition's allocation state.
.LP
The valid states are:
.TP 8
.B on
The device is usable by Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
A device moving to the \fBon\fP
state will be unloaded if there is media mounted.
.TP
.B idle
The device will not be selected for use by either Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
 file systems.  Any existing activity
will be allowed to complete.  Once there is no more activity, the device will
be placed in the \fBoff\fP state.
.TP
.B unavail
The device is unavailable for use by Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems
and most Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS commands.
The only valid commands for a device in this state are
.BR load (1M),
.BR unload (1M),
and
.BR set_state (1M).
A device moving to the \fBunavail\fP state will be unloaded
if there is media mounted.
.TP
.B off
The device is unusable by Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
A device moving to the \fBoff\fP
state from \fBon\fP, \fBidle\fP or \fBunavail\fP will
be unloaded if there is media mounted. The only state a \fBdown\fP
device may be moved to is \fBoff\fP.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR load (1M),
.BR unload (1M),
.BR mcf (4),
.BR sam-robotsd (1M)
