.\" $Revision: 1.10 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH stageback.sh 1M "12 Jan 2004"
.SH NAME
stageback.sh \- Stages files from Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS archive tapes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/stageback.sh\fR \fIoutput_file\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBstageback.sh\fR
script stages files from Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS archive tapes
based on \fBarchive_audit\fR(1M) output.
You can use this script if an archive volume is partially corrupt and
there are no other archive copies available.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following argument:
.TP 10
\fIoutput_file\fR
The name of the output file created by the \fBarchive_audit\fR(1M) command.
.SH USAGE
The following steps describe how to use the \fBstageback.sh\fR script.
.TP 10
Step 1.
Copy the script from its
original location in
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/stageback.sh\fR
to the \fB/tmp\fR directory or to a different alternate location.
The script itself contains comments to guide you in
tailoring the script for your own use.
.TP
Step 2.
Modify the variables you need.
Generally, only the
following variables in the script need to be modified:
.RS 10
.TP 10
\fBMEDIA\fR
The \%2-character media type of the volume in question as defined on
the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.TP
\fBVSN\fR
The volume serial name of the volume in question.
.PP
For example:
.sp
.ft CO
.nf
eval /opt/SUNWsamfs/bin/rearch -m lt -v TAPE66 $file
.fi
.ft
.RE
.TP 10
Step 3.
Remove the pound character (\fB#\fR)
from column 1 of the line that defines the variables.
.TP
Step 4.
Run \fBstageback.sh\fR.
As its argument, include the name of the output file
created by \fBarchive_audit\fR(1M).
.SH EXAMPLES
The following script has been edited to contain site-specific
information (only the edited portions of the script are shown):
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
    echo rearch  $file
#
#   Edit the following line for the correct media type and VSN
#
    eval /opt/SUNWsamfs/bin/rearch -m lt -v TAPE66 $file
.ft
.fi
.SH WARNINGS
Improper use of this script can damage user or system data.
Please refer to the \fISun QFS, Sun \%SAM-FS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS Disaster
Recovery Guide\fR or contact technical support before using this script.
.SH FILES
The \fBstageback.sh\fR script resides in the following location:
.PP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/stageback.sh
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBstage\fR(1),
\fBrelease\fR(1).
.PP
\fBarchive_audit\fR(1M),
\fBrearch\fR(1M).
