.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH tarback.sh 1M "03 Dec 2001"
.SH NAME
tarback.sh \- Reloads files from Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS archive tapes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/tarback.sh\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBtarback.sh\fR
script reloads files from Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS archive tapes.
This script can be used if a file system is lost and there are no
usable \fBsamfsdump\fR(1M) files or copies of the \&\fB.inodes\fR
files available.
.PP
.SH USAGE
The following steps describe how to use the \fBtarback.sh\fR script.
.TP 10
Step 1.
Use \fBsammkfs\fR(1M) to recreate
or restore the file system.
.TP
Step 2.
Use \fBsamu\fR(1M) to set the drive you are using to \fBunavail\fR.
.TP
Step 3.
Copy the script from its
original location in \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/tarback.sh\fR
to the \fB/tmp\fR directory or to a different alternate location.
The script itself contains comments to guide you in
tailoring the script for your own use.
.TP
Step 4.
Modify the variables you need.
Generally, only the
following variables in the script need to be modified:
.RS 10
.TP 20
\fBVariable Name\fR
\fBContent\fR
.TP
\fBEQ="\fIeq\fB"\fR
The Equipment Number of the tape drive as defined in the \fBmcf\fR
file.
.TP
\fBTAPEDRIVE="\fIpath\fB"\fR
The raw path to the device described by \fBEQ=\fR.
.TP
\fBBLOCKSIZE="\fIsize\fB"\fR
The block size in \%512-byte units.  For example, specify \fB256\fR
for a block size of 128 kilobytes.
.TP
\fBMEDIATYPE="\fImt\fB"\fR
The \%2-character media type for this tape as defined on
the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.TP
\fBVSN_LIST="\fIvsn1 vsn2 \&.\&.\&.\fB"\fR
The list of VSNs to be read.  There is no limit on the number of
VSNs that can be specified.  Use a space character to separate
the VSN names.  This list can be continued onto another line by
using a backslash character (\\).
.sp
For example:
.sp
.ft CO
.nf
VSN_LIST="vsn1 vsn2 \\
  vsn3"
.fi
.ft
.RE
.TP 10
Step 5.
Remove the pound character (\fB#\fR)
from column 1 of the line that defines the variables.
.TP
Step 6.
Run \fBtarback.sh\fR.  There are no arguments.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following script has been edited to contain site-specific
information (only the edited portions of the script are shown):
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
STAR="/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/star"
LOAD="/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/load"
UNLOAD="/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/unload"
EQ=28
TAPEDRIVE="/dev/rmt/3cbn"
BLOCKSIZE=256
MEDIATYPE="lt"

VSN_LIST="VSNA VSNB VSNC \\
   VSNZ"
.ft
.fi
.SH WARNINGS
Improper use of this script can damage user or system data.
Please refer to the \fISun QFS, Sun \%SAM-FS, and Sun \%SAM-QFS Disaster
Recovery Guide\fR or contact technical support before using this script.
.SH FILES
The \fBtarback.sh\fR script resides in the following location:
.PP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/tarback.sh
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsamload\fR(1M),
\fBsamu\fR(1M),
\fBstar\fR(1M),
\fBunload\fR(1M).
