.\" $Revision: 1.7 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH umount_samfs 1M "13 Mar 2006"
.SH NAME
umount_samfs \- Unmounts a Sun StorEdge QFS or \%SAM-QFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBumount\fR
\fB\-F\ samfs\fR
[-f]
[\fIgeneric_options\fR]
[\fB\-o\ \fIawait_clients=\fRn]
\fIspecial\fR | \fImount_point\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBumount\fR command unmounts
a currently mounted file system from
the file system hierarchy.
The file system may be specified by either its \fImount point\fR
or its \fIspecial\fR (also known as its \fIfamily set name\fR).
.PP
For more information on the \fBmount\fR(1M) command,
see the \fBmount\fR(1M) man page and the \fBmount_samfs\fR(1M) man page.
.PP
For more information on the \fBumount\fR command,
see the \fBumount\fR(1M) man page.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
\fB\-F\ samfs\fR
Specifies that the file system being unmounted is of type \fBsamfs\fR.
Both Sun StorEdge QFS and \%SAM-QFS file systems are of type \fBsamfs\fR.
.TP
\fI-f\fR
Forcibly unmount the file system,
i.e., unmount the file system even if it is busy.
This may fail or hang in some situations,
particularly on clients if the metadata server does not have the
FS mounted.
.TP
\fIgeneric_options\fR
One or more generic Solaris file system options.
For a list of possible \fIgeneric_options\fR,
see the \fBumount\fR(1M) man page.
.TP
\fB\-o\ \%await_clients=\fIn\fR
If the mounted file system is a QFS or SAM-QFS shared file system
and the current host is the metadata server for that file system,
the umount command will wait for the specified period
(\fIn\fR seconds) for any mounted clients to first unmount.
The unmount command proceeds after either the last client host
unmounts the file system, or the waiting period expires.
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
\fIspecial\fR
The Family Set Name from the Sun StorEdge QFS
or \%SAM-QFS master configuration file (\fBmcf\fR).
For more information on this file, see the
\fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.TP
\fImount_point\fR
The path name or directory at which the file system is mounted.
If the \fImount_point\fR
had any contents prior to the \fBmount\fR operation,
these become accessible after the umount command successfully completes.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.nf
# umount samfs1
.fi
.PP
Unmount the file system whose family set name is \fBsamfs1\fR.
If the file system is in use, the command will fail.
.PP
.nf
# umount -f -o await_clients=30 /qfs1
.fi
.PP
Forcibly unmount the file system mounted on \fB/qfs1\fR.
If the file system is a shared file system,
and the local host is the metadata server for that file system,
then \fRumount\fR will wait up to 30 seconds for the clients to
unmount before issuing the unmount.
If the file system is not shared,
or has no mounted clients,
or the local host is not the metadata server,
the \fIawait_clients\fR option has no effect.
The file system is forcibly unmounted.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\fB/etc/mnttab\fR
Table of mounted file systems.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR release (1).
.PP
.BR mount (1M),
.BR mount_samfs (1M),
.BR mountall (1M),
.BR sam-releaser (1M),
.BR sammkfs (1M).
.PP
.BR mount (2).
.BR umount (2).
.PP
.BR mcf (4),
.BR mnttab (4),
