." $Revision: 1.18 $ 
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems 
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH unarchive 1M  "08 Jan 2003"
.SH NAME
unarchive \- Deletes archive entries 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBunarchive\fR
\%\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR
\%[\fB\-f\fR]
\%[\fB\-m\ \fImedia_type\fR\ [\%\fB\-v\ \fIvsn\fR]]
\%[\fB\-M\fR]
\%[\fB\-o\fR]
\%\fIfilename\fR \&. \&. \&.
.PP
\fBunarchive\fR
\%[\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR]
\%[\fB\-f\fR]
\%\fB\-m\ \fImedia_type\fR\ [\%\fB\-v\ \fIvsn\fR]
\%[\fB\-M\fR]
\%[\fB\-o\fR]
\%\fIfilename\fR \&. \&. \&.
.PP
\fBunarchive\fR
\%\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR
\%[\fB\-f\fR]
\%[\fB\-m\ \fImedia_type\fR\ [\%\fB\-v\ \fIvsn\fR]]
\%[\fB\-M\fR]
\%[\fB\-o\fR]
\%\fB\-r\ \fIdirname\fR
\%[\fIfilename\fR] \&. \&. \&.
.PP
\fBunarchive\fR
\%[\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR]
\%[\fB\-f\fR]
\%\fB\-m\ \fImedia_type\fR\ \%[\fB\-v\ \fIvsn\fR]
\%[\fB\-M\fR]
\%[\fB\-o\fR]
\%\fB\-r\ \fIdirname\fR
\%[\fIfilename\fR] \&. \&. \&.
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBunarchive\fR command
deletes archive entries for one or more files or directories.
The specifications for the archive
copy (\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR) and/or
the media type and
VSN
.if n .br
(\%\fB\-m\ \fImedia_type\fR \%[\fB\-v\ \fIvsn\fR])
determine which archive copy is deleted.
.PP
There are several ways to specify one or more archive entries to
be unarchived.  These ways are as follows:
.TP 3
\(bu
By copy number
.TP
\(bu
By copy number, media type, and VSN
.TP
\(bu
By copy number and media type
.TP
\(bu
By media type
.TP
\(bu
By media type and VSN
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 10
\%\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR
Deletes the specified archive copy number.
If one or more \fB\-c\fR options are 
are specified, only those archive copies (copies 1, 2, 3, or 4)
are deleted.
Specify \fB1\fR, \fB2\fR, \fB3\fR, or \fB4\fR for \fIcopy_no\fR.
Either a \fB\-c\fR or a \fB\-m\fR option must be specified.
.TP
\%\fB\-f\fR
Suppresses errors.
.TP
\%\fB\-m\ \fImedia_type\fR
Deletes all archive copies from the specified \fImedia_type\fR.
For the list of possible \fImedia_type\fR specifications, see the
\fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
Either a \fB\-c\fR or a \fB\-m\fR option must be specified.
If you specify a \fB\-m\fR option, you can also specify
a \fB\-v\fR option.
.TP
\%\fB\-M\fR
Unarchives metadata only.
This includes directories, the segment index,
and removable media files.
Regular files and symbolic links are not unarchived.
If you are unarchiving a directory, you must specify
the \%\fB-M\fR option.
.TP
\%\fB\-o\fR
Specifies that the file must be online before its archive entry is deleted.
If the file is offline, the \fBunarchive\fR command
stages the file to disk before deleting any entries.
.TP
\%\fB\-r\ \fIdirname\fR
Recursively deletes the archive entries of \fIdirname\fR
and its subdirectories.
The archive entries of files in the directories and subdirectories
are deleted.
.TP
\%\fB\-v\ \fIvsn\fR
Deletes the archive copies on \fIvsn\fR.
For \fIvsn\fR, specify a volume serial name (VSN).
If you specify a \fB\-v\fR option, you must also specify
a \fB\-m\fR option.
.TP
\fIfilename\fR
Deletes the archive entries for the specified \fIfilename\fR.
.SH NOTES
If the last (undamaged) copy of a file would be unarchived, 
the \fBunarchive\fR command reports \fBLast undamaged offline copy\fR
and does not unarchive that copy.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmcf\fR(4).
