.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH acl2640 7 "02 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
acl2640 \- The ACL2640 Automated Tape Library
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The ACL2640 tape library supports 264 DLT tape
cartridges and 3 DLT tape drives.  The library has a  import/export
unit that may be used to import or export media into the library. 
The import unit takes one cartridge at a time and the export unit will
hold up to 12 cartridge.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The ACL2640 should \fBNOT\fP be configured with auto-clean when
running Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS software.
.SH IMPORT/EXPORT MEDIA
To import media the door on the ACL2640 must first be opened.  To open the
door issue the
.BR import (1M)
command,  then follow the instructions in the ACL2640
operator's Guide.
.LP
To export media, use the
.BR export (1M)
command to move media into the export unit then follow the
instructions in the ACL2640 Operator's Guide.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B mcf
The configuration file for
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS software.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR export (1M),
.BR import (1M),
.BR sam-robotsd (1M).
.PP
.BR mcf (4).
