.\" $Revision: 1.19 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH fujitsulmf 7 "02 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
fujitsulmf \- The Fujitsu LMF Automated Tape Library
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIfujitsulmf\fP is the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS software interface
to the Fujitsu LMF library.
This interface utilizes the LMF interface supplied by Fujitsu.
For more information on LMF, see the LMF MTL Server/Client User's Guide
supplied by Fujitsu.
.SH CONFIGURATION
It is assumed that the site has the LMF server configured and 
operating with the LMF library.
.LP
The "equipment identifier" field in the \fBmcf\fP file, (see
.BR mcf (4)),
is the full path name to a parameters file used by \fIfujitsulmf\fP.  This file
consists of a list of keyword = value pairs or a keyword
followed by a drivename = value
pair.
All keywords and values are case-sensitive and must be entered
as shown.
.TP
.I lmfdrive
There is one \fIlmfdrive\fP line for every drive assigned to this client.
Following the \fIlmfdrive\fP keyword is a drivename = path, where:
.LP
.RS
.TP
.I drivename 
is the drivename as configured in LMF.
.TP
.I path 
is the pathname to the device.
This name must match the "equipment identifier" of an
entry in the \fBmcf\fR file.
.LP
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
Here are sample parameters files and mcf entries 
for an LMF library.
.LP
.RS
.ft CO
.nf
#
# This is file: /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/lmf50
#
# the name "LIB001DRV000" is from the LMF configuration
#
lmfdrive LIB001DRV000 = /dev/rmt/0cbn   # a comment
#
# the name "LIB001DRV001" is from the LMF configuration
#
lmfdrive LIB001DRV001 = /dev/rmt/1cbn  # a comment

The mcf file entries.

#
# Sample mcf file entries for an LMF library
#
/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/lmf50 50   fj   fj50  -  /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/fj50_cat
/dev/rmt/0cbn           51   fd   fj50  -  /dev/samst/c2t5u0
/dev/rmt/1cbn           52   fd   fj50  -  /dev/samst/c2t6u0
.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
.SH IMPORT/EXPORT
Since the physical adding and removing 
of media in the LMF library is done with
LMF utilities, the import/export commands will only
affect the library catalog.  The
.B import
command has an optional
parameter (see
.BR import (1M))
(\fB\-v\fR) for supplying the volser to be added.
\fIfujitsulmf\fP will verify that LMF knows about the volser
before updating the catalog with the new entry.  The \fBexport\fP command (see 
.BR export (1M))
will remove the entry from the catalog.
.SH CATALOG
There are two utilities used to maintain the library catalog used by
LMF.
.B build_cat
(see
.BR build_cat (1M))
is used to build the
catalog.
.B dump_cat
(see
.BR dump_cat (1M))
and
.B build_cat
together are used to change the size of the catalog. 
.LP
To initialize a catalog with 1000 slots run:
.LP
.RS
build_cat /tmp/catalog_file < /dev/null
.RE
.LP
then move /tmp/catalog_file to the path pointed to in the mcf file for
this media changer.
Use import to populate the catalog with the volumes allowed
by DAS.  Or, you can create a file with the list of volumes and supply 
it as input to \fBbuild_cat\fP (see
.BR build_cat (1M))
for the format
of the input file.
.LP
If the size of the catalog needs to be increased, execute something
like:
.LP
.RS
dump_cat file1 | build_cat -s 2000 /tmp/file2
.RE
.LP
This would create a new catalog file (/tmp/file2) with room for 2000
entries and initialize it with the entries from file1.  This should
only be done when the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS software is not running
and \fBsam-amld\fP has
been shutdown (see
.BR sam-amld (1M)).
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B mcf
The configuration file for the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS software.
.TP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/lib/liblmf2.so
The LMF library supplied by Fujitsu.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR build_cat (1M),
.BR dump_cat (1M),
.BR export (1M),
.BR import (1M),
.BR sam-robotsd (1M).
.PP
.BR mcf (4).
