.\" $Revision: 1.21 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH grauaci 7 "02 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
grauaci \- The ADIC/Grau Automated Tape Library through the ACI
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgrauaci\fR is the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS software interface
to the ADIC/Grau Network-attached library.
This interface utilizes the DAS/ACI 3.10E interface supplied by ADIC.
For more information on DAS/ACI, see the
.I DAS/ACI 3.10E Interfacing Guide
and the
.I DAS Administration Guide.
Both manuals are supplied by ADIC.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Sun assumes that your site has the DAS server configured and 
operating with the ADIC/Grau library.  In the DAS configuration file for
this client, the \fBavc\fR (avoid volume contention) and
the \fBdismount\fR parameters should both be set to \fBtrue\fR.
.LP
The Equipment Identifier field in the \fBmcf\fP file
is the full path name to a parameters file used by \fBgrauaci\fP.  This file
consists of a list of \fIkeyword = value\fR pairs or a keyword
followed by a \fIdrivename = value\fR pair.
For more information on the \fBmcf\fR file, see the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.PP
All keywords and values, including the following, are case sensitive and
must be entered as shown:
.TP 10
\fBKeyword\fR
\fBValue\fR
.TP
\fBclient\fR
This is the name of this client as defined in the DAS configuration file.
This is a required parameter.
.TP
\fBserver\fR
This is the hostname of the server running the DAS server code.  This is
a required parameter.
.TP
\fBacidrive\fR
There is one \fBacidrive\fR line for every drive assigned to this client.
Following the \fBacidrive\fR keyword is a \fIdrivename = path\fR, string
that is as follows:
.LP
.RS 10
.TP 10
.I drivename 
The drive name as configured in the DAS configuration file.
.TP
.I path 
The path name to the device.
This name must match the Equipment Identifier of an
entry in the \fBmcf\fR file.
.LP
.RE
.LP
If the library contains different media types, then there must 
be a separate media changer for each of the media types.  Each 
media changer must have a unique client name in the DAS configuration,
a unique library catalog and a unique parameters file.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows sample parameters files and \fBmcf\fR
entries for a ADIC/Grau library supporting DLT tape and HP optical drives.
The catalog files are placed in the default directory,
which is \fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog\fR.
.LP
.RS
.ft CO
.nf
#
# This is file: /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/gr50
#
client = grau50
server = DAS-server
#
# the name "drive1" is from the DAS configuration file
#
acidrive drive1 = /dev/rmt/0cbn         # a comment
#
# the name "drive2" is from the DAS configuration file
#
acidrive drive2 = /dev/rmt/1cbn         # a comment

#
# This is file: /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/gr60
#
client = grau60
server = DAS-server
#
# the name "DH03" is from the DAS configuration file
#
acidrive DH03 = /dev/samst/c1t1u0

The mcf file entries.

#
# Sample mcf file entries for an ADIC/Grau library - DLT
#
/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/gr50  50      gr      gr50   -  gr50cat
/dev/rmt/0cbn           51      lt      gr50   -  /dev/samst/c2t5u0
/dev/rmt/1cbn           52      lt      gr50   -  /dev/samst/c2t6u0

#
# Sample mcf file entries for an ADIC/Grau library - HP optical
#
/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/gr60  60      gr      gr60   -  gr60cat
/dev/samst/c1t1u0       61      od      gr60   -
.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
.SH IMPORT/EXPORT
The physical adding and removing of cartridges in an ADIC/Grau
network-attached library is accomplished using the DAS utilities.
The
.BR import (1M)
and
.BR export (1M)
commands affect only the library catalog.
Therefore, importing and exporting cartridges with the
ADIC/Grau network-attached library consists of the following
two-step process:
.TP 3
1)
Physically import or export the cartridge using the DAS
utilities.
.TP
2)
Virtually update the automated library catalog using
the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS import and export utilities.
.LP
The \fBimport\fR(1M) command has an optional \fB-v\fR
parameter for supplying the VSN to be added.
The \fBgrauaci\fR interface verifies that DAS knows about the VSN
before updating the catalog with the new entry.
The \fBexport\fR(1M) command
removes the entry from the catalog.
For more information on importing and exporting, see
the \fBimport\fR and \fBexport\fR(1M) man pages.
.SH CATALOG
There are several methods for building a catalog for an
ADIC/Grau network-attached library.  You should use the method
that best suits your system configuration, and this is typically determined
by the size of the catalog that is needed.
.LP
\fBMethod 1:  Create a catalog with existing VSN entries.\fR
(Please note this method only works for tapes. It does not
work for barcoded optical media.)
You can build a catalog that contains entries for many
tapes by using the \fBbuild_cat\fR(1M) command.
As input to \fBbuild_cat\fR(1M), you need to create a file
that contains the slot number, VSN, 
barcode, and media type.  For example, file \fBinput_vsns\fR follows:
.ft CO
.nf

	0 TAPE01	TAPE01	lt
	1 TAPE02	TAPE02	lt	
	2 TAPE03	TAPE03	lt

.fi
.ft
.LP
The \fBinput_vsns\fR file can be used as input to the \fBbuild_cat\fR(1M)
command, as follows:
.ft CO
.nf

    build_cat input_vsns /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/grau50cat

.fi
.ft
.LP
\fBMethod 2:  Create a null catalog and import VSN entries.\fR
You can create an empty catalog and populate it.
To create a catalog that will accommodate 1000 slots, use the
\fBbuild_cat\fR command, as follows:
.ft CO
.nf

      build_cat -s 1000 /dev/null /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/grau50cat

.fi
.ft
.LP
Use the \fBimport\fR(1M) command to add VSNs to this catalog, as follows:
.ft CO
.nf

      import -v TAPE01 50

.fi
.ft
.LP
For ADIC/Grau optical media, it is very important to import the A 
side of barcoded optical media.  The Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and
Sun \%SAM-QFS software
queries the ADIC/Grau database
to find the barcode for the B side and fills in the catalog entry
for the B side appropriately.  The A side of optical media in the 
ADIC/Grau automated library is the left side of a slot as you face the
slots. 
.LP
\fBMethod 3:  Use the default catalog and import VSN entries.\fR
If a catalog path name is not specified in the \fBmcf\fR file, a
default catalog is created in
.B /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/\fIfamily_set_name\fR
when the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS software is initialized.
Following initialization, you must import
VSN entries to this catalog.  Use the \fBimport\fR(1M)
command, as follows:
.ft CO
.nf

      import -v TAPE01 50

.fi
.ft
\fRIn the preceding \fBimport\fR(1M) command, \fB50\fR is
the Equipment Identifier of the automated library as
specified in the \fBmcf\fR file.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 25
.B mcf
The configuration file for the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and
Sun \%SAM-QFS software.
.TP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/lib/libaci.so
The ACI library supplied by ADIC.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbuild_cat\fR(1M),
\fBdump_cat\fR(1M),
\fBexport\fR(1M),
\fBimport\fR(1M),
\fBsam-robotsd\fR(1M).
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(4).
