.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH historian 7 "02 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
historian \- The Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS historian
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhistorian\fP is a catalog that keeps track of volumes that
have been exported from an automated library or that have been unloaded
from manually loaded devices.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The \fBhistorian\fP catalog is similar to the catalog for an automated
library but since there
are no devices associated with it, has no family set name.
If there is no historian catalog configured in the mcf file (see
.BR mcf (4))
one will be created as:
.LP
.RE
.ft CO
.nf
    historian    \fIn+1\fP   hy   -   -   /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/historian
.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
Where \fIn+1\fP is the highest equipment number defined  in the mcf file plus 1.
.LP
The historian catalog will be created with 32 entries when the 
catalog server initializes and can grow during execution.  
Each time the catalog fills,
32 entries of approximately 200 bytes each will be added.
Make sure the historian's catalog resides
on a file system large enough to hold the expected size.  Since the
catalog is needed before a sam file system can be mounted, DO NOT put the
catalog on a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system.
.LP
Two configuration parameters in the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file 
(see
.BR defaults.conf (4))
affect the way the system will react
to requests for media or requests to add media to the historian catalog.
If \fIexported_media\fP is set to unavailable, then any media exported 
from a media changer will be set to unavailable in the historian.
Any request for media flagged as unavailable will receive an ESRCH error.
If \fIattended\fP is set to "no" (operator is NOT available), then any
request for media in the historian catalog will be sent back to the
file system with an error (ESRCH).  Any request for media currently
loaded in
a manually loaded drive will be accepted no matter what the state of the
attended or unavailable flags are.
.SH EFFECTS OF HISTORIAN
Whenever the file system receives the error ESRCH for a stage request, it
will automatically generate a stage request for the next archived copy
(unless the last stage request was for the last copy).  For a 
removable media request, the error ESRCH will be returned to the user.
.SH IMPORT/EXPORT
.LP
\fBimport\fP (see
.BR import (1M))
is used to insert entries to the
historian catalog.
.LP
\fBexport\fP (see
.BR export (1M))
is used to remove entries from the
historian catalog.  You may export by slot or vsn.
.SH CATALOG
The catalog server will create a new, empty catalog in the default file
location if none exists or no catalog is specified in the mcf file. 
Alternately, the \fBbuild_cat\fP command (see
.BR build_cat (1M))
may be used to build the
initial catalog.  
.LP
To initialize a catalog with 32 slots run:
.LP
.RS
build_cat \- /tmp/catalog_file < /dev/null
.RE
.LP
then move /tmp/catalog_file to the path pointed to in the mcf file for
the historian.
Or, you can create a file with the list of volumes and supply 
it as input to \fBbuild_cat\fP (see
.BR build_cat (1M))
for the format
of the input file.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 30
.B mcf
The configuration file for the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and
Sun \%SAM-QFS software.
.TP
.B defaults.conf
Default information.
.TP
.B /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/historian
Default historian catalog file.
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR build_cat (1M),
.BR dump_cat (1M),
.BR export (1M),
.BR sam-robotsd (1M).
.PP
.BR defaults.conf (4),
.BR mcf (4).
