.\" $Revision: 1.20 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH sam-remote 7 "21 Feb 2003"
.SH NAME
sam-remote, sam-clientd, sam-serverd \- Describes the Sun \%SAM-Remote interface and daemons
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-serverd \fImshmid pshmid equip\fR
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-clientd \fImshmid pshmid equip\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Sun \%SAM-Remote client and server software allows automated
libraries to be
shared among the Solaris systems in a Sun StorEdge SAM environment.
Sun \%SAM-Remote allows you to configure multiple storage clients
that archive and stage files from a centralized optical and/or
tape library.  This environment also allows you to make multiple
archive copies on various media housed in multiple libraries.
.SH DAEMONS
The Sun \%SAM-Remote daemons, \%\fBsam-serverd\fR and \%\fBsam-clientd\fR,
control Sun \%SAM-Remote.  The \%\fBsam-robotsd\fR daemon starts the
\%\fBsam-serverd\fR and \%\fBsam-clientd\fR daemons.
The identifiers associated with these daemons are as follows:
.TP 10
\fImshmid\fR
The identifier of the master shared memory segment created
by \%\fBsam-amld\fR.
.TP
\fIpshmid\fR
The identifier of the preview shared memory segment created
by \%\fBsam-amld\fR.
.TP
\fIequip\fR
The equipment number of the device.
.PP
For more information on the \%\fBsam-robotsd\fR or
\%\fBsam-amld\fR daemons, see the
\%\fBsam-robotsd\fR(1M) or \%\fBsam-amld\fR(1M) man pages.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuring the Sun \%SAM-Remote client and server software involves
adding lines to the \fBmcf\fR file on both the system to be used as
the Sun \%SAM-Remote client and on the system to be used as
the Sun \%SAM-Remote server.
.PP
In addition, a client configuration file must be created on
the Sun \%SAM-Remote client, and a server configuration file must be
created on the Sun \%SAM-Remote server.
.PP
Each entry in \fBmcf\fR file can configure up to ten clients per server.
Use more mcf entries to configure more than ten clients.
.PP
In the \fBmcf\fR file, the \fBEquipment Type\fR field contains \fBsc\fR
to define a Sun SAM-Remote client or \fBss\fR to define a Sun SAM-Remote
server.
.PP
The server configuration file defines the disk buffer characteristics and 
media to be used for each client. For a client named \fBportland\fR for example:
.HP
portland
     media
     100 at (000031|000032|000034|000035|000037|000038)
     endmedia
.PP
The media definitions must be indented with white space or tab characters.
The \fBregex\fR data must be enclosed by parentheses.
.PP
For a complete description of the Sun \%SAM-Remote configuration
process,
see the \fISun StorEdge SAM-FS Storage and Archive Managment Guide\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\fBmcf\fR
The master configuration file for Sun StorEdge SAM, Sun StorEdge QFS,
the Sun \%SAM-Remote client, and the Sun \%SAM-Remote server.
.TP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib/librmtsam.so\fR
The Sun \%SAM-Remote shared object library.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsam-amld\fR(8),
\fBsam-robotsd\fR(8).
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(5).
.PP
\fISun StorEdge SAM Storage and Archive Management Guide\fR.
