.\" $Revision: 1.5 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samaio 7 "30 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
samaio \- Pseudo Device Driver for AIO
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWqfsr SUNWsamfsr
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
The pseudo driver, \fBsamaio\fR, allows you to attach a QFS file to a
character device, which can then be accessed through that device.
\fBsetfa -q\fR attaches a QFS file to \fBsamaio\fR. When you open a file
with the \fB-q\fR attribute set,
you use the character device.
\fBSamaio\fR translates access to the character device into I/O on the
underlying QFS file. This is useful for aio because raw device I/O is
faster than file system aio.
.LP
\fBSamaio\fR is controlled through \fB\/dev/samaioctl\fR - this is the only
device exported during attach, and is minor number 0. QFS communicates
with \fBsamaio\fR through ioctls on this device. When a file is attached to
\fBsamaio\fR, character devices are exported in \fB\/dev/rsamaio\fR. These
devices are identified by their minor number. Minor devices are tracked
with state structures handled with ddi_soft_state(9F).

The command \fBls\fR displays a character device for files 
with the \fB-q\fR attribute set,
The command \fBsls\fR displays a regular file with its current length
for files with the \fB-q\fR attribute set,
.SH ERRORS 
.TP 15
.SB EACCES
Permission denied.
.TP
.SB EBUSY
The device was opened exclusively by another thread.
.TP
.SB EFAULT
The argument was a bad address.
.TP
.SB EINVAL
Invalid argument.
.TP
.SB EIO\ \ 
An I/O error occurred.
.TP
.SB ENOTTY
This indicates that the device does not support the
requested ioctl function.
.TP
.SB ENXIO
During opening, the device did not exist.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.BI /dev/samaioctl
Master control device
.TP
.BI /dev/rsamaio/\fIn\fP
Character device for file \fIn\fP
.TP
.BI /kernel/drv/samaio
32-bit driver
.TP
.BI /kernel/drv/samaio.conf  
Driver configuration file. (Should not be altered.)
.TP
.BI /kernel/drv/sparcv9/samaio
64-bit driver
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR driver.conf(4), 
.BR devfsadm(1M), 
.BR setfa(1), 
.BR sam_setfa(3)
