.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samst 7 "05 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
samst \- Driver for SCSI media changers and optical drives
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI samst@ target , lun : a
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
This driver handles embedded
.SM SCSI-2
and
.SM CCS\s0-compatible
.SM SCSI
media changers, optical drives, CD-ROM drives and 
non-motion I/O for tape drives
.LP
The type of device is determined using the
.SM SCSI
inquiry command.
.LP
The only I/O supported for optical devices is \*(lqraw\*(rq.
\fBsamst\fP supports 512-, 1024-, 2048-, and \%4096-byte sector
sizes for optical media.
The names of the raw files are found in
.BR /dev/samst .
.LP
.SS "Special handling during open"
.LP
If \fIO_NDELAY\fP or \fIO_NONBLOCK\fP
is specified on the open, then the device does not have to be in the
ready state for the open to succeed.  This allows the opening of 
a device for initialization or to check the media type.
.SH ERRORS 
.TP 15
.SB EACCES
Permission denied.
.TP
.SB EBUSY
The device was opened exclusively by another thread.
.TP
.SB EFAULT
The argument was a bad address.
.TP
.SB EINVAL
Invalid argument.
.TP
.SB EIO\ \ 
An I/O error occurred.
.TP
.SB ENOTTY
This indicates that the device does not support the
requested ioctl function.
.TP
.SB ENXIO
During opening, the device did not exist.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /kernel/drv/samst.conf
driver configuration file
.TP
.BI /dev/samst/c n t n u n
raw files
.PD
.LP
where:
.RS 5
.PD 0
.TP
.BI c n
controller
.I n
.TP
.BI t n
SCSI target id
.I n
(0-6)
.TP
.BI u n
SCSI LUN
.I n
(0-7)
.PD
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR samdev (1M).
.PP
.BR driver.conf (4).
.LP
.I "ANSI Small Computer System Interface-2 (SCSI-2)"
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
.sp
.ft 3
.nf
Error for command '<command name>'	Error Level: Fatal
Requested Block <n>, Error  Block: <m> 
Sense Key: <sense key name>
Vendor '<vendor name>': ASC = 0x<a> (<ASC name>), ASCQ = 0x<b>, FRU = 0x<c>
.fi
.ft 1
.in +5m
The command indicated by <command name> failed. The Requested Block is the
block where the transfer started and the Error Block is the block that caused
the error. Sense Key, ASC, and ASCQ information is returned by the target
in response to a request sense command.
.LP
.sp
.ft 3
.nf
Check Condition on REQUEST SENSE
.fi
.ft 1
.in +5m
A REQUEST SENSE command completed with a check condition. The original command
will be retried a number of times.
.LP
.sp
.ft 3
.nf
Not enough sense information
.fi
.ft 1
.in +5m
The request sense data was less than expected.
.LP
.sp
.ft 3
.nf
Request Sense couldn't get sense data
.fi
.ft 1
.in +5m
The REQUEST SENSE command did not transfer any data.
.LP
.sp
.ft 3
.nf
Reservation Conflict
.fi
.ft 1
.in +5m
The drive was reserved by another initiator.
.LP
.sp
.ft 3
.nf
SCSI transport failed: reason 'xxxx' : {retrying|giving up} 
.fi
.ft 1
.in +5m
The host adapter has failed to transport a command to the target for
the reason stated. The driver will either retry the command or, ultimately,
give up.
.LP
.sp
.ft 3
.nf
Unhandled Sense Key <n>
.fi
.ft 1
.in +5m
The REQUEST SENSE data included an invalid sense key.
.LP
.sp
.ft 3
.nf
Unit not Ready. Additional sense code 0x<n>
.fi
.ft 1
.in +5m
The drive is not ready.
.LP
.sp
.ft 3
.nf
device busy too long
.fi
.ft 1
.in +5m
The drive returned busy during a number of retries.
.LP
.sp
.ft 3
.nf
incomplete read/write - retrying/giving up
.fi
.ft 1
.in +5m
There was a residue after the command completed normally.
.LP
.sp
.ft 3
.nf
logical unit not ready
.fi
.ft 1
.in +5m
The unit is not ready.
.SH NOTES
This driver can accept removable media
devices that identify themselves as
"direct access" by setting the variable \fBsamst_direct\fP to
a nonzero value.
You can do this using the \fBset\fR command in the \fB/etc/system\fR
file (see \fBsystem\fR(4)).
.PP
Whenever a new version of Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
is installed, the existing
\fBsamst.conf\fP file is copied to \fBsamst.conf.MMDDYY\fR for 
reference and backup purposes.
 
