.\" $Revision: 1.22 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH sony 7 "02 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
sony \- Attaches a Sony \%network-attached tape library through
the \%DZC-8000S interface
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS software package contains the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
and Sun \%SAM-QFS interface 
to a Sony \%network-attached library.
This interface uses the DZC-8000S 3.01 interface supplied by Sony.
For more information on DZC-8000S, see the \fISony PetaSite Application  
Interface DZC-8000S\fR manual.  This manual is supplied by Sony.
.SH CONFIGURATION
It is assumed that the site has the PetaSite Controller (PSC) configured and 
operating with the Sony library.  In the Execute Mode of the PSC
configuration, the following must be set to on:
.TP 3
\(bu
Thread With Load
.TP
\(bu
Unthread with Fast Unload
.TP
\(bu
Unthread with Eject
.TP
\(bu
Wait for Drive Use
.PP
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fR field in
the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS \fBmcf\fR file
must be the full path name to a Sony parameters file.
For more information on specifying a parameters file, see the
\fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.PP
The parameters file consists of a list
of \fIkeyword\fB\ =\ \fIvalue\fR pairs.
All \fIkeyword\fR and \fIvalue\fR specifications are \%case-sensitive and
must be entered as shown on this man page.
The \fIkeyword\fR and \fIvalue\fR specifications are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBuserid = \fIuserid\fR
Identifies the user during initialization of the Sony
library functions.
The \fIuserid\fR values can be specified in hexadecimal
or decimal.
The valid range is from 0 to PSCUSERIDMAX(0xfff), which
is 0 <= \fIuserid\fR <= 65535 (decimal) or 0 <= \fIuserid\fR <= 0xffff
(hexadecimal).
This is a
required parameter.
.TP
\fBserver = \fIserverid\fR
Specifies the host name of the server running the PSC server code.
This is a required parameter.
.TP
\fBsonydrive \fIbinnum = path \fR[ \fBshared \fR]
Specifies characteristics of the tape drive.
There must be one \fBsonydrive\fR line
for every drive assigned to Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or
Sun \%SAM-QFS in the \fBmcf\fR
file. This name must match the Equipment Identifier of an
entry in the \fBmcf\fR file.
.sp
The following arguments follow the \fBsonydrive\fR keyword:
.RS 10
.TP 10
\fIbinnum\fR
Specifies the bin number assigned to the drive in the PSC
configuration.  The bin number can be identified using the PSC
Monitoring and Maintenance terminal. 
This is a required argument.
.TP
\fIpath\fR
Specifies the Solaris \fB/dev/rmt/\fR path name to the device.
The \fIpath\fR must match the \fBEquipment Identifier\fR of an
entry in the \fBmcf\fR file.
This is a required argument.
.TP
\fBshared\fR
Specifies that this drive is shared with other processes.
For example, this drive can be shared between multiple
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or \%SAM-QFS servers.
This is an optional argument.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example shows the configuration files for a
\%network-attached Sony library with Sony DTF tapes.
.PP
Here are the sample entries in the \fBmcf\fR file. 
The catalog file is placed in the default directory, which
is \fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog\fR.
.PP
The \fBmcf\fR file is as follows:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
#
# This is the file: /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
# This file shows sample mcf entries for a Sony network-attached
# robot with Sony DTF tapes.
#
/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/sonyfile 50 pe sony50 on /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/sony50cat
/dev/rmt/0cbn              51 so sony50 on  
/dev/rmt/1cbn              52 so sony50 on  
.fi
.ft
.PP
The parameters file for a Sony library supporting Sony DTF tapes is as
follows:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
#
# This is file: /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/sonyfile
#
# The userid identifies the user during initialization of
# the PetaSite library functions. Valid IDs are 0 to
# PSCUSERIDMAX(0xfff).
#
userid = 65533
#
# The server identifies the hostname for the server running 
# the DZC-8000S server code.
#
server = europa
#
# The sonydrive bin number 1001 is from the PSC configuration file
#
sonydrive 1001 = /dev/rmt/0cbn shared  # a comment
#
# The sonydrive bin number 1002 is from the PSC configuration file
#
sonydrive 1002 = /dev/rmt/1cbn         # a comment
.SH IMPORT/EXPORT
The physical adding and removing of cartridges in a
Sony \%network-attached library is accomplished using the PSC utilities.
The \fBimport\fR(1M) and \fBexport\fR(1M) commands affect only
the library catalog.
Therefore, importing and exporting cartridges with the
Sony \%network-attached library proceeds according to the
following \%two-step process:
.TP 3
1.
Physically import or export the cartridge using the PSC
software.
.TP
2.
Virtually update the library catalog using the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS import/export utilities.
.PP
The \fBimport\fR(1M) command has an optional \fB\-v\fR
option that allows you to specify the VSN to be added.
The \fBsamsony\fR package verifies that PSC knows about the VSN
before updating the catalog with the new entry.
The \fBexport\fR(1M) command
removes the entry from the catalog.
.SH CATALOG
There are several methods for building a catalog for a
Sony \%network-attached library.  You should use the method 
that best suits your system configuration, typically depending
on the size of the catalog that is needed.
.PP
Method 1: Create a catalog with existing VSN entries.
You can build a catalog that contains entries for many
tapes by using the \fBbuild_cat\fR(1M) command.
As input to the \fBbuild_cat\fR(1M) command,
you need to create a file
that contains the slot number, VSN, bar code label, and media 
type.
For example, the file \fBinput_vsns\fR follows:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
0  "SEG001"  "SEG001"  so
1  "SEG002"  "SEG002"  so
2  TEST1     TEST1     so
3  TEST2     TEST2     so
.fi
.ft
.PP
The \fBinput_vsns\fR file can be used as input to the \fBbuild_cat\fR(1M)
command as follows:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
build_cat input_vsns /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/sony50cat
.fi
.ft
.LP
Method 2: Create a null catalog and import VSN entries.
You can create an empty catalog and populate it.
To create a catalog that will accommodate 1000 slots, use the
\fBbuild_cat\fR(1M) command as follows:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
build_cat -s 1000 /dev/null /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/sony50cat
.fi
.ft
.PP
Use the \fBimport\fR(1M) command to add VSNs to this catalog, as follows:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
import -v "SEG005" 50
.fi
.ft
.LP
Method 3: Use the default catalog and import VSN entries.
If a catalog path name is not specified in the \fBmcf\fR
file, a default catalog is created
in \fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/\fIfamily_set_name\fR
when Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS is initialized.
Following initialization, you must import
VSN entries to this catalog by using the \fBimport\fR
command as follows:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
import -v "SEG005" 50
.fi
.ft
.PP
In the previous \fBimport\fR(1M) command, \fB50\fR
is the \fBEquipment Ordinal\fR of the library as specified
in the \fBmcf\fR file.
.SH FILES
.TP 25
\fBmcf\fR
The configuration file for the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
and Sun \%SAM-QFS software.
.TP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/lib/libpsc.so\fR
The PSC library supplied by Sony.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbuild_cat\fR(1M),
\fBdump_cat\fR(1M),
\fBexport\fR(1M),
\fBimport\fR(1M),
\fBsam-robotsd\fR(1M).
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(4).
