.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH ssi_so 7 "12 Jan 2004"
.SH NAME
ssi_so \- The StorageTek (STK) ACSAPI client daemon.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBssi_so\fP is a shared object version of the SSI daemon supplied
by STK.  This daemon is the interface that \fIsamfs\fP uses
(see
.BR stk (7))
to communicate with the ACSLM.  
.LP
The ssi needs a number of parameters set to communicate with
the ACSLM.  These parameters are set through shell environment variables.
To allow the most flexibility in setting these variables, a shell script
(\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/ssi.sh\fR)
is used by the stk daemon (see
.BR sam-stkd (1M)),
to start a \fBssi_so\fR daemon.  In general, most sites should not need to
change the variables within this script.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sam-robotsd (1M).
.PP
.BR stk (7).
