.\" $Revision: 1.9 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH backto 8 "28 Jul 2005"
.SH NAME
backto \- Restores configuration files to an existing release's condition
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B backto \fIlevel\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfsr\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWqfsr\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Sun \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS upgrade process moves
certain files, for example license files, to new locations.
If you revert to a previous release, use the \fBbackto\fR script 
to restore these files to their previous locations and formats.
Run this script before you remove the current release package.
.PP
This command accepts the following options:
.PP
.TP 10
\fIlevel\fR
\fBMeaning\fR
.TP
\fB4.2\fR
Use this argument to revert to the 4.2 releases.
.TP
\fB4.3\fR
Use this argument to revert to the 4.3 releases.
.PP
Because some files have paths or arguments added that do not work
on earlier systems, these files are not moved directly.  For such
files, either go back to the previous version of the file
or edit the most current release's version of the file
to remove path changes and new features.
