.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH cleandrive 8 "02 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
cleandrive \- Clean drive in media changer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/cleandrive
.I eq
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B cleandrive
requests that tape device \fIeq\fP be loaded with a cleaning cartridge.
.LP
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments support
the use of a cleaning tape, if
cleaning tapes are supported by
the hardware and if your media library has barcodes enabled.
If you request that a tape drive be cleaned,
then a cleaning tape is inserted automatically.
.LP 
Cleaning tapes must have a VSN starting with the letters \fBCLN\fR
in the label
or must have the word \fBCLEAN\fR in the label.  Multiple cleaning tapes are
allowed in a system.
.LP 
Cleaning tapes are only useful for a limited number of cleaning cycles.
The number of remaining cycles can be viewed in the
.B samu (8)
VSN catalog display
under the \fBcount\fR field.
Both Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments track the number of 
cleaning cycles used for
each cleaning tape. If the media changer supports the export operation,
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems will
export the tape when the 
number of remaining cycles
equals zero.
A DLT cleaning tape has 20 cycles and an Exabyte cleaning tape has 10 cycles.
Each time a cleaning tape is imported, the cleaning cycle is reset to the
highest number of cycles for that type of tape.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mcf (5),
.BR sam-robotsd (8),
.BR samu (8)
