.\" $Revision: 1.11 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH dev_down.sh 8 "07 Jan 2009"
.na
.nh
.SH NAME
dev_down.sh \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS device down notification script
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/dev_down.sh
\fIprg_name\fR
\fIpid\fR
\fIlog_level\fR
\fImsg_no\fR
\fIeq\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/dev_down.sh
script can be executed by the \fBsam-robotsd\fR(8) daemon
when a device is marked \fBdown\fR or \fBoff\fR.
.PP
To enable this feature, copy \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/dev_down.sh\fR
to \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/dev_down.sh\fR and
modify it to take the desired action for your installation.
.PP
As released, the \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/dev_down.sh\fR
script sends email to root with the relevant information.
.SH OPTIONS
This script accepts the following arguments:
.TP 10
\fIprg_name\fR
The name of the program that is calling this script.
.TP
\fIpid\fR
The process ID of the program that is calling this script.
.TP
\fIlog_level\fR
Log priority level.
An integer number such
that \fB0\fR\ \(<=\ \fIlog_level\fR\ \(<=\ \fB7\fR.
\fB0\fR is highest priority, and \fB7\fR is lowest priority.
.TP
\fImsg_no\fR
The message number as found in the message catalog.
.TP
\fIeq\fR
The Equipment Number of the device.
.SH EXAMPLE
.PP
The following is an example \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/dev_down.sh\fP file:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
 #!/bin/sh
 #

 #   /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/dev_down.sh - Take action in the
 #       event a device is marked down by the SAM software.
 #
 #   arguments:  $1: caller
 #                   $2: caller's pid
 #                   $3: logging level
 #                   $4: message catalog number
 #                   $5: device identifier
 #
 # Change the email address on the following line to send
 # email to the appropriate recipient.
 /usr/ucb/mail -s "Sun StorEdge SAM-FS Device downed" root <<EOF
 `date`
 Sun StorEdge SAM-FS has marked the device $5,
 as down or off.  Check device log.
 EOF
.fi 
.ft
.PP
The example sends email to root to report that a device has been
marked \fBdown\fR or \fBoff\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sam-robotsd (8).
