." $Revision: 1.17 $ 
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems 
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH exarchive 8  "08 Jan 2003"
.SH NAME
exarchive \- Exchanges archive copies 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBexarchive\fR
\%\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_m\fR
\%\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_n\fR
\%[\fB\-f\fR]
\%[\fB\-M\fR]
\%[\fIfilename\fR] \&. \&. \&.
.PP
\fBexarchive\fR
\%\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_m\fR
\%\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_n\fR
\%[\fB\-f\fR]
\%[\fB\-M\fR]
\%\fB\-r\ \fIdirname\fR
\%[\fIfilename\fR] \&. \&. \&.
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBexarchive\fR command
exchanges archive copies for one or more files or directories.
You must specify two \fB\-c\fR options (see \fBOPTIONS).
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 10
\%\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_m\fR
.TP
\%\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_n\fR
Specifies the copies to be exchanged.
The \fIcopy_m\fR is exchanged with \fIcopy_n\fR.
Exactly two \fB\-c\fR options must be specified.
The first copy (\fIcopy_m\fR) must have a valid archive entry.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Suppresses errors.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR
Exarchives meta data only.
This includes directories, the segment index, and removable media files.
Regular files are not exarchived.
If you are exchanging a directory, you must specify the \fB\-M\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-r\ \fIdirname\fR
Recursively exchanges the archive entries of the specified \fIdirname\fR
and its subdirectories.
The archive entries of files in the directories and subdirectories
are exchanged.
.TP
\fIfilename\fR
Exchanges the archive copies for the specified \fIfilename\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBunarchive\fR(8).
