.\" $Revision: 1.8 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH fsmgmtd 8 "25 Mar 2004"
.SH NAME
fsmgmtd \- Sun StorEdge File System Manager RPC API server process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/fsmgmtd 
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWfsmgr\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBfsmgmtd\fR is the RPC API (Application Programmer Interface)
server process.  After the \fBSUNWsamfs\fR or \fBSUNWqfs\fR package is
installed, this daemon must be manually started by using the
\fBfsmadm\fR(8) utility, as follows:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
fsmadm config -a
.fi
.ft
.PP
The preceding command starts \%\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/fsmgmtd\fR
and adds the following entry to \fB/etc/inittab\fR:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
sfad:3:respawn:/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/fsmgmtd
.fi
.ft
.PP
To stop the \%\fBfsmgmtd\fR daemon and remove the entry from 
\fB/etc/inittab\fR, enter the following command:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
fsmadm config -n
.fi
.ft
.PP
After the first manual start, \fBfsmgmtd\fR is
started by \fBinit\fR(8) from
the following entry in \fB/etc/inittab\fR:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfad:3456:respawn:/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/fsmgmtd   
.fi
.ft
.PP
\fBfsmgmtd\fR(8) performs the following other actions:
.TP 3
\(bu
Registers the server program with \fBrpcbind\fR(8).
.TP
\(bu
Initializes the \%\fBsam-mgmt\fR API library to keep track
of changes made to the various configuration files by other
processes.
.TP
\(bu
Maintains a timestamp, which allows multiple
clients to \%co-exist.
.TP
\(bu
Keeps a check to note that
multiple clients are modifying the configuration files and sends
messages to indicate the same.
.TP
\(bu
Initializes tracing for the daemon.
.PP
Tracing can be enabled by including an entry
in \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/defaults.conf\fR.
The following example lines enable tracing:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
trace
all = on                       # trace all daemons
sam-mgmt = on                  # enable tracing for sam-mgmt
sam-mgmt.options = all oprmsg  # trace all and oprmsg events
sam-mgmt.size = 10M            # limit the trace file size to 10M
endtrace
.ft
.fi
.PP
The trace file is written to \%\fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/trace/sam-mgmt\fR.
For more information on tracing, see the Trace File Controls
section in the \fBdefaults.conf\fR(8) man page.
.PP
The messages in the trace file convey information about the state
and progress of the work performed by this daemon.
The messages are primarily used by Sun engineers and support
personnel to improve performance and diagnose problems.
As such, the message content and format are subject
to change with bugfixes and feature releases.  
.PP
The tracing mechanism is similar to the mechanism used by other
Sun StorEdge QFS and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS daemons.
To prevent the trace files from growing indefinitely, you can
implement trace file rotation.
For information on this, see \fBtrace_rotate\fR(8).
You can specify that rotation be
performed when the trace files reach a certain age and size
in the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file.  For more information, see
the \fBdefaults.conf\fR(5) man page.
.PP
You can start the \fBfsmgmtd\fR daemon at package installation
time or manually later after the \fBSUNWsamfs\fR
or \fBSUNWqfs\fR package is installed, by entering the following
at the system prompt:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
fsmadm config -a
.ft
.fi
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBinit\fR(8),
\fBrpcbind\fR(8),
\fBfsmadm\fR(8),
\fBtrace_rotate\fR(8).
.PP
\fBdefaults.conf\fR(5).


