.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH move 8 "30 Nov 2000"
.SH NAME
move \- Move a cartridge in a library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/move 
.IB eq : src_slot
.I dst_slot
.br
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/move 
.IB mediatype . vsn
.I dst_slot
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B move
will send a request to the library specified by
.I eq
to move the cartridge in
.I src_slot
to the slot
.IR dst_slot .
For the form
.IR mediatype . vsn ,
.I eq
and
.I src_slot
are determined from the catalog entry.  All other volumes on the cartridge
are moved.
.LP
The source slot must be in use and occupied (that is, not loaded in a drive)
and the destination slot must not be in use.
.PP
Some libraries do not support
moving cartridges between storage slots.
Generally, if the automated library is SCSI attached,
the \fBmove\fR(8) command is supported.  If the automated library is 
network attached, the \fBmove\fR(8) command is not supported.  
.LP
If
.I src_slot
and
.I dst_slot
are the same, and the cartridge is double-sided, the cartridge will be
turned over (flipped).
.LP
.SH FILES
.TP 10
.B mcf
The configuration file for
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR export (8),
.BR import (8),
.BR mcf (5),
.BR sam-robotsd (8)
