." $Revision: 1.19 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH qfsdump 8 "27 Feb 2006"
.SH NAME
qfsdump, qfsrestore \- Dump or restore file system data
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBqfsdump \fP[\fB -dHqTv \fP] [\fB-B \fIsize \fP] [\fB-b \fIbl_factor \fP] [\fB-I \fIinclude_file \fP] [\fB-X \fIexcluded-dir \fP] \fB-f \fIdump_file \fP [ \fIfile... \fP]
.P
\fBqfsrestore \fP[\fB -dilrRstTv2\fP ] [\fB-B \fIsize \fP] [\fB-b \fIbl_factor \fP] \fB-f \fIdump_file\fP [\fIfile... \fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBqfsdump\fP creates a dump file of the control structures and data of each
specified \fIfile\fP and, if the \fIfile\fP is a directory, (recursively)
its subdirectories.  Any \fIfile\fP specified with an absolute path will be
stored in the dump file with an absolute path and any \fIfile\fP specified
with a relative path will be stored in the dump file with a relative path.
If no \fIfile\fP is specified, \fBqfsdump\fP
creates a dump file of the control structures and data of
the current relative directory (referenced as ".") and (recursively)
its subdirectories (referenced as "./<subdirectory_name>").
.PP
\fBqfsrestore\fP uses the contents of the dump file to restore the
control structures and data for all the files in the dump file
or each specified
\fIfile\fP.  If a \fIfile\fP is specified, its path and filename must
match exactly what exists in the dump file.  All files will be restored
to the absolute or relative location as each file is described in the
dump file, unless the \fB-s\fP option is specified.  With the \fB-s\fP
option specified, all filenames with an absolute path in the dump file
are restored relative to the current directory, using the entire path as
contained in the dump file.
.PP
In both \fBqfsdump\fP and \fBqfsrestore\fP, the dump file
must be specified in \fB-f\fP \fIdump_file\fP, where \fIdump_file\fP
specifies the name of the dump file to write or read,
respectively.  If a - (dash) is specified for the \fIdump_file\fP,
\fBqfsdump\fP will write the dump file to
\fBstdout\fP or \fBqfsrestore\fP will read the dump file from \fBstdin\fP.
The dump file data can be passed through appropriate filters, such as
compression or encryption, after being written by \fBqfsdump\fP
or before being read by \fBqfsrestore\fP.
.PP
\fBqfsdump\fP and \fBqfsrestore\fP require the super-user for execution.
Sun Microsystems recommends  that a site create \fBqfsdump\fP dumps on a
periodic basis as part of a disaster recovery plan.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
\fB-d\fP
Enable debugging messages.  Useful only to Sun Microsystems to trace execution
for verification purposes.
.TP 10
\fB-H\fP
(\fBqfsdump\fP only) Specifies the dump file is to be created without a dump header record,
or the existing dump file has no header record. This option be used to
create control structure dump files which can be concatenated using
\fBcat\fP (see \fBcat\fP(1)).
.TP 10
\fB-i\fP
(\fBqfsrestore\fP only) Prints inode numbers of the files when listing the contents of the
dump.
See also the \fB-l\fP, \fB-t\fP, and \fB-2\fP options.
.TP 10
\fB-I\ \fIinclude_file \fP
(\fBqfsdump\fP only) Takes the list of files to dump from \fIinclude_file\fP.
This file has one relative or absolute path to be dumped per line.
After processing \fIinclude_file\fP, any [\fIfile\fR] arguments from the command
line are processed.
.TP 10
\fB-l\fP
(\fBqfsrestore\fP only) Prints one line per file similar to \fBsls \-l\fP when listing the contents
of the dump.  (This option is the lower case letter `ell'.)
See also the \fB-i\fP, \fB-t\fP, and \fB-2\fP options.
.TP 10
\fB-q\fP
(\fBqfsdump\fP only) Suppresses printing of warning messages during the dump for those files
which will be damaged should the dump be restored.  By default, such
warning messages are displayed.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-r\fR
(\fBqfsrestore\fP only) Replaces existing files when restoring control structures if the existing
files have an older modification time than the dumped files.
.TP 10
\fB-R\fP
(\fBqfsrestore\fP only) Replaces existing files when restoring control structures.
.TP 10
\fB-s\fP
(\fBqfsrestore\fP only) Causes leading slashes to be stripped from filenames prior to
restoring them.  This is useful if the dump was made with an absolute
pathname, and it's now necessary to restore the dump to a different
location.  Any directories required for the restoration and not defined
in the dump file are automatically created.

.TP 10
\fB-t\fP
(\fBqfsrestore\fP only) Instead of restoring the dump, \fBqfsrestore\fP will list the
contents of the dump file.  See also the \fB-i\fP, \fB-l\fP,
and \fB-2\fP options.
.TP 10
\fB-T\fP
Displays statistics at termination, including number of files and
directories processed, number of errors and warnings, etc.  An example
is:
.TP 10
qfsdump statistics:
            Files:              52020
            Directories:        36031
            Symbolic links:     0
            Resource files:     8
            File  archives:     0
            Damaged files:      0
            Files with data:    24102
            File  warnings:     0
            Errors:             0
            Unprocessed dirs:   0
            File data bytes:    0

The numbers after "Files",  "Directories",  "Symbolic links", and
"Resource files"  are the counts of files, directories and symbolic
links whose inodes are contained in the dump.

"File archives" refers to the number of archive images associated with
the above Files, Directories, Symbolic links and Resource files.
"Damaged files" refers to the number of Files, Directories, Symbolic
links, and Resource files which are either already marked damaged (for
a qfsdump), or were damaged during a restore because of having no
archive image (for a qfsrestore).
.sp
"Files with data" refers to the number of Files that
have online (full or partial) data dumped or restored.
.sp
"File warnings" refers to the
number of Files, Directories, Symbolic links and Resource files which
would be damaged should the dump be restored (because they had no
archive images at the time of the dump).
.sp
"Errors"  refers to the
number of error messages which were printed during the dump or
restore.  These errors are indications of a problem, but the problem is
not severe enough to cause an early exit from qfsdump or
qfsrestore.  Examples of errors during restore are failing to create
a symbolic link, failing to change the owner or group of a file.
Errors which might occur during a dump include pathname too long,
failing to open a directory for reading, failing to read a symbolic
link or resource file, or finding a file with an invalid mode.
.sp
"Unprocessed dirs" refers to the number of directories which were not
processed due to an error (such as being unable to create the
directory).
.sp
"File data bytes" is the amount of file data dumped or restored.
.TP 10
\fB-v\fP
Prints file names as each file is processed. This option is superseded
by options \fB-l\fP or \fB-2\fP.
.TP 10
(\fBqfsdump\fP only) \fB-X\fP \fIexcluded-dir\fP
specifies directory paths to be excluded from the dump. Multiple (up
to 10) directories may be excluded by using multiple \fB-X\fP parameters.
A directory which resolves to . or NULL causes an error message to be issued.
.TP 10
\fB-2\fP
Prints two lines per file similar to \fBsls \-2\fP when listing the
contents of the dump.
See also the \fB-i\fP, \fB-l\fP, and \fB-t\fP options.
.TP 10
\fB-B \fIsize\fP
Specifies a buffer size in units of 512 bytes. Note that there are limits
on the buffer size, as specified in the error message when the limits have
been exceeded. The default buffer size is 512 * 512 bytes.
.TP 10
\fB-b \fIbl_factor\fP
Specifies a blocking factor in units of 512 bytes. When specified, all I/O
to the dump image file is done in multiples of the blocking factor. There
is no blocking done by default.
.TP 10
\fIfile...\fP
Gives a list of files to be dumped or restored.  Note that the names
given to restore must match exactly the names as they are stored in the
dump; you can use \fBqfsrestore -t\fP to see how the names are stored.
.SH NOTES
\fBqfsdump\fP only supports full dumps of specified files and directories.
Incremental dump support should be added at a future date.
.PP
\fBqfsdump\fP dumps all data of a sparse file, and \fBqfsrestore\fP will
restore all data. This can lead to files occupying more space on dump files
and on restored file systems than anticipated. Support for sparse files
should be added at a future date.
.SH ERRORS
.LP
"Not a SAM-FS file" means that you are attempting to operate on a file
which is not contained in a Sun StorEdge QFS file system.
.LP
"\fIfile\fR: Unrecognised mode (0x..)" means that \fBqfsdump\fR is being asked to
dump a file which is not a regular file, directory, symbolic link or
request file.  While Sun StorEdge QFS
allows the creation of block special,
character special, fifo ... files, these do not function correctly, and
\fBqfsdump\fR does not attempt to dump them.
.LP
"\fIfile\fR: Warning! File will be damaged." during a \fBqfsdump\fR means that
the file in question does not currently have any archive copies.  The
file is dumped to the \fBqfsdump\fR file, but if the \fBqfsdump\fR file is used
to restore this file, the file will be marked damaged.
.LP
"\fIfile\fR: Warning! File is already damaged." during a \fBqfsdump\fR means that
the file is currently marked damaged.  During restore, the file will
still be damaged.
.LP
"\fIfile\fR: File was already damaged prior to dump" during a \fBqfsrestore\fR means
that the file was dumped with the "damaged" flag set.
.LP
".: Not a SAM-FS file." means that you are attempting to dump files from a
non-SAM-FS file system or
restore files from a \fBqfsdump\fR dump file into a non-SAM-FS file system.
.LP
"\fIfile\fR: stat() id mismatch: expected: %d.%d, got %d.%d" during a dump
indicates one of two things.  If the %d. portions match, but the .%d
portions differ, then a directory or file was deleted and recreated
while \fBqfsdump\fR was operating on it.  The file is not dumped.  If
the %d. portions do not match, then a serious error has been encountered;
consult your service provider for help.
.LP
"Corrupt samfsdump file.  name length %d" during a restore means that
the pathname of a file to be restored was less than zero, or larger than
MAXPATHLEN.  This should not occur.  \fBqfsrestore\fR aborts.
.LP
"Corrupt samfsdump file. %s inode version incorrect" during a restore
means that a the inode for the indicated file was in an old format.
This should not occur.  \fBqfsrestore\fR aborts.
.LP
"\fIfile\fR: pathname too long" during a dump indicates that the pathname of
the indicated file is longer than 1024 characters.  The file is not
dumped.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example creates a control structure dump of the entire
\fB/sam\fR file system:
.LP
.nf
.RS
.ft 3
example# cd /qfs1
example# qfsdump -f /destination/of/the/dump/qfsdump.today
.RE
.ft 0
.LP
To restore a file system dump to \fB/qfs1\fR:
.LP
.nf
.RS
.ft 3
example# cd /qfs1
example# qfsrestore -f /source/of/the/dump/qfsdump.yesterday
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sls (1),
.BR cat (1)
