.\" $Revision: 1.5 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam-fsalogd 8 "08 June 2008"
.SH NAME
sam-fsalogd \- Logs SAM file system activity in a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-QFS
file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-fsalogd\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsam-fsalogd\fR daemon is initiated
by the \fBsam-fsd\fR daemon. The \fBsam-fsd\fR daemon starts a
file system activity daemon for each configured SAM-QFS file system.
.PP
The \fBsam-fsalogd\fR daemon opens a door to the Sun \%SAM-QFS
file system. The \fBsam-fsalogd\fR daemon receives events
associated with this file system and logs them. Events include:
.PP
.ce 2
\fBTABLE 1.  SAM file system activity events\fR
.PP
.RS
.nf
.ft 4
.ta 0n 26n 36n  48
Event       Description        Parameter(s)        Time\fR
ev_none     -                  -                -
ev_create   file created       nlinks,namehash  creation time
ev_change   uid/gid changed    -                change time
ev_close    modified & closed  filemode         modify time
ev_rename   renamed            0=new,namehash   parent modify time
ev_rename   renamed            1=old,namehash   old parent modify time
ev_remove   removed            nlinks,namehash  change time
ev_offline  marked offline     -                residence time
ev_online   marked online      -                residence time
ev_archive  copy archived      copy number      copy creation time
ev_modify   copies stale       -                modify time
ev_archange copies changed     copy number      modify time
ev_restore  file restored      0=old            old modify time
ev_restore  file restored      1=new            new modify time
ev_umount   umount fs          -                now
.TE
.PP
These events are reading by sam-dbupd and can be stored in the sideband database
.PP
.SH FILES
Detailed trace information is written to the \fBsam-fsalogd\fR trace file.
.PP
In the \fBfsalog.cmd\fR file,
you can specify the directory pathname where the logs are stored for
each Sun \%SAM-QFS file system.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmount_samfs\fR(8).
\fBsam-fsd\fR(8).
\fBsam-dbupd\fR(8).
.PP
\fBfsalogd.cmd\fR(4M).
\fBdefaults.conf\fR(4M).
