.\" $Revision: 1.15 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH sam-sharefsd 8 "03 Jan 2002"
.SH NAME
sam-sharefsd \- Invokes the Sun StorEdge QFS or Sun \%SAM-QFS shared file system daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-sharefsd\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsam-sharefsd\fR process
establishes connection to the current metadata server in a Sun 
QFS or Sun \%SAM-QFS shared file system. The \fBsam-sharefsd\fR process
on the metadata server opens a listener socket on the port
associated with this file system. The shared file system port
is defined in \fB/etc/services\fR as \fBsamsock.\fIfs_name\fR\fR.
.PP
The Sun StorEdge QFS and Sun \%SAM-QFS shared file system is a distributed file
system that can be mounted on Solaris host systems.
.PP
The \fBsam-sharefsd\fR process is initiated
by the \fBsam-fsd\fR daemon. The \fBsam-fsd\fR daemon starts a
shared file system daemon for each configured shared file system.
.SH FILES
Detailed trace information is written to the \fBsam-sharefsd\fR trace file.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsam-fsd\fR(8).
.PP
\fBsammkfs\fR(8).
.PP
\fBsamsharefs\fR(8).
