.\" $Revision: 1.5 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam-shrink 8 "16 Jan 2009"
.SH NAME
sam-shrink \- Sun \%QFS and Sun \%SAM-QFS disk space shrink process
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/util/sam-shrink\fR
\fIfile_system\fR | \fIfamily_set\fR
\fI\-remove\fR | \fI\-release\fR
.I eq
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This \fIsam-shrink\fP process is executed when a shrink of a Sun \%QFS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system is required.
The \fIsamadm\fP command \fIeq-remove\fP or \fIeq-release\fP or the
\fIsamu\fP command \fIremove\fP or \fIrelease\fP cause the state of the
specified device to be set to \fInoalloc\fP. Then, the file system
requests the master daemon \fIsam-fsd\fP to start the process
\%\fBsam-shrink\fR.  The specified device (\fIeq\fP) must be a data
device that resides within a \fIma\fP file system.  If the data device
is a stripe group, the first \fIeq\fP of the stripe group must be
specified.  The \fIeq\fP state is changed to \fInoalloc\fP before
\fIsam-shrink\fP is started. This means there will be no more
allocation on this device.
.PP
The \fIsam-shrink\fP command should \fInot\fP be executed by the
administrator separately.  Pre and post processing that the
Sun \%SAM-QFS file system does automatically is necessary for a
successful shrink.
.PP
The remove option copies all data that reside on \fIeq\fP
to the other available data devices according to the mount parameters.
Note, if \fIeq\fP is a stripe group, another stripe group must be
available with the same number of devices.
.PP
The release option is only available on the Sun \%SAM-QFS
file system. The release option marks all files that reside on
\fIeq\fP offline. If any files have partial on-line, that data will be
released, too.  The release will fail if there are any files that
have not been archived. The release will also fail if there are any files that
are staging or being archived. If the \fIrelease\fP command fails,
you may execute the \fIrelease\fP command again to release any newly
achived files. If there are files that cannot be archived, then
you may execute the \fIremove\fP command to move the
data that resides on \fIeq\fP to the other available data devices according
to the mount parameters.
.PP
After successful completion of the remove or release operation, the
\fIeq\fP state will be \fIoff\fP. It may take a long time to complete
the release operation and an even longer time to complete the  remove
operation.  You can monitor the logfile and/or the
\fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/trace/sam-shrink\fP file to check the status.
.PP
If the remove or release operation was not able to release or move all
the files on the \fIeq\fP, the state will remain \fInoalloc\fP. The remove
or release operation can be executed again on this \fIeq\fP. The
\fBshrink.log\fR should be examined for reasons why the
\fIeq\fP state could not be changed to \fIoff\fP.
.SH LOG
Within the \fBshrink.cmd\fR file,
you can specify a log file for each Sun \%QFS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system.
If no \fBlogfile=\fIfilename\fR directive exists in the file,
no logging occurs.
For more information on the \fBlogfile=\fIfilename\fR directive,
see the \fBshrink.cmd\fR(5) man page.
.PP
The \fIsam-shrink\fP process creates the log file if it does not exist.
The following example shows the log file entries for a \fIrelease\fP command
followed by a \fIremove\fP command.
.ft CO
.nf

     Tue Sep 29 15:31:15 2008 Shrink process started: samfs5 release 15
     RE 6412.5  P S0 /sam1/250m
     RE 5131.5  P S0 /sam1/filecq
     NA 5095.4 -- S0 /sam1/filecu
     ER 5039.5 16 S0 /sam1/filedi
     NA 5039.2 -- S0 /sam1/lsc/filexx
     Tue Sep 29 15:31:55 2008 shrink process unsuccessful for samfs5 eq 15:
     busy files=1, unarchived files=2, total_errors=1
     Tue Sep 29 15:32:15 2008 Shrink process started: samfs5 remove 15
     MV 5095.4 -- S0 /sam1/filecu
     MV 5039.5 -- S0 /sam1/filedi
     MV 5039.2 -- S0 /sam1/lsc/filexx
     Tue Sep 29 15:33:21 2008 shrink process successful for samfs5 eq 15
.fi
.ft
.PP
The first line shows the arguments with which the shrink
was invoked: file_system command equipment.
.PP
The next block of lines has one line per file processed:
The fields are as follows:
.TP 15
\fBField Number\fR
\fBContent\fR
.TP
1
This field contains the \fItag\fB:
\fIRE\fR for released, \fIMV\fR for removed, \fINA\fR for not archived,
or \fIER\fR for error releasing or removing file.
If the directive \fIdo_not_execute\fR is set in the \fBshrink.cmd\fR file,
this field contains the \fItag\fB: \fINO\fR.
.TP
2
This field contains the inode and generation number of the file.
.TP
3
This field contains the stage or errno \fItag\fR.
For the release command, \fItag\fR is either \fI S\fR for file staged back
on-line, \fI P\fR for partial staged back on-line,
or \fI--\fR for no stage action on this file.
For a field with \fIER\fR in the first field, this tag is the error number.
.TP
4
This field contains an \fBS\fR followed by the segment number.
This is the number of the segment that was released.
.TP
5
This field contains the full path name of the released or moved file.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mcf (5).
.BR shrink.cmd (5).
