.\" $Revision: 1.25 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH sam-robotsd 8 "04 Feb 2004"
.SH NAME
sam-robotsd, sam-genericd, sam-stkd, sam-ibm3494d, sam-sonyd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS 
and Sun \%SAM-QFS media changer daemons
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-robotsd \fImshmid pshmid\fR
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-genericd \fImshmid pshmid equip\fR
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-stkd \fImshmid pshmid equip\fR
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-ibm3494d \fImshmid pshmid equip\fR
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-sonyd \fImshmid pshmid equip\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \%\fBsam-robotsd\fR daemon
starts and monitors the execution of the media changer
library control daemons for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS.
The \%\fBsam-robotsd\fR daemon is started automatically by
the \%\fBsam-amld\fR daemon if there are any libraries
defined in the \fBmcf\fR file.
The \%\fBsam-robotsd\fR daemon
starts and monitors the correct daemon for all defined libraries.
For more information on the \fBmcf\fR file, see the \fBmcf\fR(5) man page.
.PP
Each library daemon is responsible for monitoring
the preview table for the VSNs that are controlled by that daemon.
If a 
request is found for one of its VSNs, the daemon finds an available
drive under its control and moves the cartridge into that drive.
When the device is ready, the daemon notifies the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or 
Sun \%SAM-QFS library daemon,
and the device is assigned to the waiting process.
.PP
The identifiers are as follows:
.TP 10
\fImshmid\fR
The identifier of the master shared memory segment created by
the \%\fBsam-amld\fR daemon.
.TP
\fIpshmid\fR
The identifier of the preview shared memory segment created by
the \%\fBsam-amld\fR daemon.
.TP
\fIequip\fR
The equipment number of the device.
.PP
The \%\fBsam-genericd\fR daemon controls 
libraries that conform to the SCSI II standard for
media changers, and it is the daemon that controls the
ADIC/Grau ABBA library through the \fBgrauaci\fR interface.
For more information on this interface, see the \fBgrauaci\fR(4)
man page.
.LP
The \%\fBsam-stkd\fR daemon
controls StorageTek libraries through
the ACSAPI interface and is included in the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS software
package.
For more information on this interface, see
the \fBstk\fR(4) man page.
.PP
The \%\fBsam-ibm3494d\fR daemon
controls IBM 3494 tape libraries through 
the \fBlmcpd\fP interface and is included in the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
software package.
For more information on this interface, see
the \fBibm3494\fR(4) man page.
.PP
The \%\fBsam-sonyd\fR daemon
controls Sony libraries through the Sony \%DZC-800S
PetaSite Application Interface Library and is included in
the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS software package.
For more information on this interface, see
the \fBsony\fR(4) man page.
.SH FILES
.TP 10
\fBmcf\fR
The master configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsam-amld\fR(8).
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(5).
.PP
\fBacl2640\fR(4),
\fBacl452\fR(4),
\fBgrauaci\fR(4),
\fBibm3494\fR(4),
\fBibm3584\fR(4),
\fBsam-remote\fR(7),
\fBsony\fR(4),
\fBstk\fR(5).
