.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam-rpcd 8 "21 Feb 2003"
.SH NAME
sam-rpcd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS RPC API server process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-rpcd 
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam-rpcd
is the RPC API (Application Programmer Interface) server process.
It is initiated by
.BR sam-amld .
.PP
.B sam-rpcd
uses the RPC program number that is paired with the RPC program name
\fIsamfs\fR.  \fBsam-rpcd\fR must run on the same machine as Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system.
You need to make the following entry in /etc/services on the server:

.ft CO 
.nf
samfs       5012/tcp       # SAM-FS API
.fi
.ft
 
And in /etc/rpc on client and server:
 
.ft CO
.nf
samfs       150005
.fi
.ft
 
Make the equivalent changes in the NIS databases if you run NIS. 

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sam_initrpc (3x)
