.\" $Revision: 1.10 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH sam-rftd 8 "04 AUG 2003"
.SH NAME
sam-rftd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file transfer server process (was sam-ftpd)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-rftd\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsam-rftd\fR process is the file transfer server process for
transferring Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun StorEdge \%SAM-QFS files to and from a remote network site.
The \fBsam-rftd\fR process is initiated
by the \fBsam-fsd\fR daemon.
.PP
By default, the file transfer daemon uses the default behaviors described
on the \fBrft.cmd\fR(5) man page.
.SH FILES
If the daemon's command file is present
in \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/rft.cmd\fR,
the \fBsam-rftd\fR process reads that file.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsam-fsd\fR(8).
.PP
\fBrft.cmd\fR(5).

