'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.27 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH sam-recycler 8 "10 Jan 2007"
.SH NAME
sam-recycler \- Recycles Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS volumes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-recycler\fR
[\%\fB\-c\fR]
[\%\fB\-C\fR]
[\%\fB\-d\fR]
[\%\fB\-E\fR]
.ifn .br
[\%\fB\-n\fR]
[\%\fB\-s\fR]
[\%\fB\-v\fR]
[\%\fB\-V\fR]
[\%\fB\-x\fR]
[\%\fB\-X\fR]
[\fIfamily_set\fR\ |\ \fIarchive_set\fR]
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \%\fBsam-recycler\fR command
invokes the recycler.
The recycler removes expired archive copies
and frees up archive volumes.
Often, the recycler is invoked
through root's \fBcrontab\fR(1) file at an \%off-peak time.
However, the recycler can be invoked at any time.
.PP
You can specify that only a specific library or archive set be
recycled.
You can recycle by library only when archiving
to tape or magneto optical cartridges in a library.
Note that you cannot recycle by library if you are
using disk archiving.
.PP
If you want to recycle by archive set, you must name the archive sets
to be recycled in the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd\fR file.
.PP
You can provide directives to the recycler through lines entered
in the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/recycler.cmd\fR file and in
the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd\fR file.
If no directives are present and no
\fIfamily_set\fR
or
\fIarchive_set\fR
is specified on the command line, recycling does not occur.
The following are the default recycler settings:
.TP 3
\(bu
The maximum data quantity to recycle (\fB-dataquantity\fP) is 1 gigabyte (1G).
.TP
\(bu
The high water mark (\fB-hwm\fP) is 95.
.TP
\(bu
The VSN gain (\fB-mingain\fP) is 60 for volumes <200GB and 90 for volumes >=200GB.
.TP
\(bu
The number of volumes (\fB-vsncount\fP) to recycle is 1.
.TP
\(bu
Automatic email is not sent.
.PP
NOTE: Extreme care must be taken when configuring the recycler if you are using disk
archiving in an environment with multiple SAM-QFS servers. The diskvols.conf file for 
each SAM-QFS server must point to a unique set of disk volume resource specifications
(disk archiving target directories). If any of these are shared between different 
SAM-QFS servers, then running the recycler from one SAM-QFS server will destroy
the disk archive data that is being managed by the other SAM-QFS server.
.SH OPTIONS
The following options determine the volumes to be recycled
and the content of the recycler log file.
.TP
\%\fB\-c\fR
Displays the extrapolated capacity of each volume.
This is the volume's capacity assuming the compression observed
on the volume so far continues for the rest of the volume.
This option produces an additional line for each volume with the
heading \fBAlpha:\fR.
.TP
\%\fB\-C\fR
Suppresses listing of initial catalog(s).  
.TP
\%\fB\-d\fR
Displays messages during the volume selection phase of processing.
These messages indicate why each volume was, or was not, selected for
recycling.
.TP
\%\fB\-E\fR
Specifies that the volume section of the recycler's log file list
only volumes that are not 100% free.
.TP
\%\fB\-n\fR
Prevents any actions from being taken.
This option causes 
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-recycler\fP
to behave as if \fB-recycle_ignore\fP were specified in the
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd\fR
file for all archive sets.
.TP
\%\fB\-s\fR
Suppresses the listing of individual volumes in the initial catalog section.
.TP
\%\fB\-v\fR
Displays information about which files are resident on the volume
that is marked for recycling.
If no path name can be calculated for the inode, it lists the
inode.
These files are on volumes that are being drained.
Using this option can consume a lot of CPU cycles.
.TP
\%\fB\-V\fR
Suppresses the volume section in the listing.
.TP
\%\fB\-x\fR
Displays messages for expired archive copies.
These are copies that are older than the time the
volume upon which the copies reside was labeled.
Such copies generate an error message when staged.
The data for those copies is irrecoverable.
These archive copies must be unarchived.  If any such
copies are discovered, the recycler stops.
This is the default behavior.  Also see the \%\fB\-X\fR option.
.TP
\%\fB\-X\fR
Inhibits the messages that indicate the existance of expired
archive copies.  Typically, if the recycler detects expired
archive copies, it stops.  Use this options if
you want the recycler to continue
in the presence of expired archive copies.  Also see
the \%\fB\-x\fR option.
.TP
\fIfamily_set\fR | \fIarchive_set\fR
Recycles only the named \fIfamily_set\fR or \fIarchive_set\fR.
This is an optional argument.
If a \fIfamily_set\fR is specified, the library associated with the family set
is recycled.  The family set is the fourth field in a server's \fBmcf\fR file.
If an \fIarchive_set\fR is specified, that archive set
is recycled.  The \fIarchive_set\fR specified must include the copy number,
as stated in the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd\fR file.
For example, \fBarset.1\fR.
.sp
If no \fIfamily_set\fR or \fIarchive_set\fR name is specified, the
recycler recycles
according to specifications in the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd\fR
and the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/recycler.cmd\fR files.
It examines each library and archive set specified.
.sp
Regardless of a specification, only archive sets and family sets that 
have a current usage that is less than the \%high-water mark are recycled.
.SH OPERATION
The recycler splits its work into
two phases:  volume selection and volume recycling.
.TP 10
Phase 1 - Volume Selection
The recycler selects volumes for recycling
based on the amount of space used by expired archive
copies as a percentage of total space on a volume.  For each library
or archive set being recycled, the volumes
with the highest percentages of expired copies are selected to bring
the media utilization in the library or archive set below
the configured \%high-water-mark.  This assumes that
each volume selected would contribute at
least \fIVSN-minimum-percent-gain\fR
percent of its total space if it were recycled.
If no such volumes
exist, the library or archive set cannot be recycled.  Ties in
expired space are resolved by selecting the volumes with the least amount
of unexpired space.
For more information on setting a high water mark, see
the \fBrecycler.cmd\fR(5) man page.
.sp
A few conditions can prevent a volume from being selected.
A volume cannot be recycled if
it contains data associated with a removable media file created by
the \fBrequest\fR(1) command.
In addition, it cannot be recycled if
it is listed in the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/recycler.cmd\fR
file's \fBno_recycle\fR section.
.sp
After volumes have been selected, they are recycled.
.TP
Phase 2 - Volume Recycling
Volume recycling differs depending upon whether the archive media is a disk
volume or whether it is a removable cartridge in a library.
Archiving to disk volumes is described first.
.sp
When a disk volume is selected for recycling, the volume is not marked
for recycling.  Additional archive copies can be written to it.
Expired archive copies on the disk volume are identified and removed.
Valid archive copies are left alone.
.sp
When a tape or magneto optical volume is selected for recycling,
the system prevents
additional archive copies from being written to it.
If you are recycling to cartridges in a library, all
files with active archive copies in volumes on the cartridges are
marked to be re-archived.  The archiver moves these copies to other
volumes.  In subsequent runs, the recycler
checks these volumes and \%post-processes them when all valid archive copies
have been relocated.
.sp
The recycler
checks to see if there are volumes that were selected for
recycling that have not yet been \%post-processed.  If such volumes
exist, and they are now devoid of active archive copies, the \fBsam-recycler\fR
command invokes the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/recycler.sh\fR(8),
which \%post-processes these volumes with arguments including the generic media
type (\fBtp\fR or \fBod\fR),
the VSN, the element address in the library, and the equipment number
of the library in which the volume resides.  The script can
relabel the cartridge using either the original VSN or a new VSN; or
it can export the cartridge from the library; or it
can perform another \%user-defined action.
.sp
The \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/recycler.sh\fR(8) script clears the \fBrecycling\fR flag 
to indicate that recycling has completed on the volume.
The \fBodlabel\fR(8) and \fBtplabel\fR(1M) commands clear this flag
after the cartridge has been relabeled.
.SH RECYCLER OUTPUT
The recycler log is divided into several sections.
.PP
The first section
describes each library catalog and archive set.
The header contains the family set name or archive set name and the
vendor, product, and catalog path name.  Then, the
capacity and remaining space for each volume appears, in bytes, with
suffixes \fBk\fR, \fBM\fR, \fBG\fR, and \fBT\fR representing
kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes, and terabytes, respectively.
In this log file, a kilobyte=1024 bytes, a megabyte=1024*1024
bytes, and so on.  Then, a summary, containing the total capacity and total
space remaining is shown in bytes and as a percentage of space used.
The recycling parameters set in the recycler and archiver command files
are also shown.
.PP
The second section is a series of tables, one for each library
and archive set that has associated volumes.  
The name of the library or archive set is shown just to the right of
the \fB----Percent----\fR label.
A volume can be associated with only one library
or archive set.  Attempts to assign a volume to multiple archive sets are
marked with a \fBin multiple sets\fR label.
The following fields are displayed:
.TP 15
\fBField Name\fR
\fBMeaning\fR
.TP
\fBStatus\fR
A phrase giving the volume's recycle status, as follows:
.RS 15
.TP 15
\fBempty VSN\fR
The volume is empty of both expired and current archive images
.TP
\fBfull VSN\fR
The volume has no free space, but it does have current archive images.
.TP
\fBin multiple sets\fR
The volume matches multiple archive sets in the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd\fR file.
.TP
\fBnew candidate\fR
The volume was chosen for recycling during this recycler run.
.TP
\%\fBno-data VSN\fR
The volume contains only expired archive images and free space.
.TP
\fBno_recycle VSN\fR
The volume is listed in the \fBno_recycle\fR section of
the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/recycler.cmd\fR file.
.TP
\fBarchive -n files\fR
The volume contains archive images for files now marked as \fBarchive\ -n\fR.
.TP
\fBold candidate\fR
The volume was already marked for recycling before this recycler run.
.TP
\fBrequest files\fR
The volume contains archive images for removeable media files.
.TP
\fBpartially full\fR
The volume contains both current archive images and free space.
.TP
\fBshelved VSN\fR
The volume is not currently located in any library.
.RE
.TP 15
\fBArchives Count\fR
The number of archive copies that are contained on this volume.
.TP
\fBArchives Bytes\fR
The number of bytes of archive copies contained on this volume.
.TP
\fBPercent Use\fR
The percentage of space in use on this volume by current archive copies.
It is estimated by summing up the sizes of the archive
copies on the medium.  Because of compression, this value can overstate
the amount of space actually used by these images.
This is the amount of data that would need to be moved if the volume
were selected for recycling.
.TP
\fBPercent Obsolete\fR
The percentage of space used on this volume for which no archive copies
were found.
This is the space that can be reclaimed by recycling this cartridge.
.sp
The \fBPercent Obsolete\fR value is calculated as follows:
.sp
100% - \fBIn Use - Free\fR
.sp
Because \fBIn\ Use\fR can overstate the actual space used (because of
compression), the sum of \fBIn use + Free\fR can exceed 100%, which
renders \fBPercent Obsolete\fR to be a negative value.
Although aesthetically unpleasing,
this does not cause any problems in the operation of the recycler.
.TP
\fBPercent Free\fR
The percentage of free space remaining on this volume.
This value comes directly from the library catalog.
It gives the percent of the volume's total capacity that is
available to hold new archive images.
.PP
For media that supports data compression, a \%best-guess value of
the average compression is calculated from the ratio of the number of
physical tape blocks consumed on the volume (that is, the
difference of \fBcapacity - space\fR)
to the logical number of tape blocks written to the volume.
The latter value is kept in the catalog.
This ratio is then used to adjust the \fBIn Use\fR value before it
is written to the log file.
.PP
The first volume to appear in the log file, for each library or
archive set, is the one most in need of recycling.
.PP
Here is an example recycler log file:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
========== Recycler begins at Thu Feb  5 13:40:20 1998 ===========
3 catalogs:

0  Family: hy                   Path: /tmp/y
   Vendor: SAM-FS               Product: Historian           
   EA                    ty    capacity         space vsn
      (no VSNs in this media changer)
   Total Capacity:  0    bytes, Total Space Available: 0    bytes
   Media utilization 0%, high 0% VSN_min 0%




1  Family: ad40                 Path: /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/ad40
   Vendor: ADIC                 Product: Scalar DLT 448      
   EA                    ty    capacity         space vsn
      0                  lt        19.2G         0    DLT3                
      1                  lt        17.7G        17.6G DLT4N               
      5                  lt        17.7G        17.6G DLT6                
   Total Capacity:  54.6G bytes, Total Space Available: 35.2G bytes
   Media utilization 35%, high 75% VSN_min 50%




2  Family: arset0.1             Path: /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd
   Vendor: SAM-FS               Product: Archive set         
   EA                    ty    capacity         space vsn
      0                  lt         0            0    DLT5                
      1                  lt        19.2G         0    DLT3                
      2                  lt         0            0    DLT2                
      3                  lt        17.7G        17.6G DLT4N               
      4                  lt        17.7G        17.6G DLT6                
   Total Capacity:  54.6G bytes, Total Space Available: 35.2G bytes
   Media utilization 35%, high 80% VSN_min 50%
   Send mail to root when this archive set needs recycling.



6 VSNs:

                    ---Archives---   -----Percent-----   
-----Status-----    Count    Bytes   Use Obsolete Free   Library:Type:VSN
shelved VSN          677    648.9M                       <none>:lt:DLT0

                    ---Archives---   -----Percent-----   arset0.1
-----Status-----    Count    Bytes   Use Obsolete Free   Library:Type:VSN
no-data VSN            0      0        0   100      0    ad40:lt:DLT3
empty VSN              0      0        0     0      0  (NULL):lt:DLT2
empty VSN              0      0        0     0    100    ad40:lt:DLT6
full VSN               4     32.1k     0     0      0  (NULL):lt:DLT5
partially full         4     40.8k     0     0    100    ad40:lt:DLT4N



Recycler finished.

========== Recycler ends at Thu Feb  5 13:40:41 1998 ===========
.fi
.ft
.PP
Here is the corresponding \fBarchiver.cmd\fR file:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
interval = 2m
no_archive .
fs = samfs1
arset0 testdir0
     1 1s
     2 1s
     3 1s
     4 1s
no_archive .
fs = samfs2
no_archive .
vsns
arset0.1 lt DLT3 DLT4N DLT6 DLT1
arset0.2 lt DLT3 DLT4N DLT6 DLT1
arset0.3 lt DLT3 DLT4N DLT6 DLT1
arset0.4 lt DLT3 DLT4N DLT6 DLT1
samfs1.1 lt DLT3
samfs2.1 lt DLT4N
endvsns
params
arset0.1 -drives 4 -recycle_hwm 80 -recycle_mingain 50
endparams
.fi
.ft

Here is the corresponding \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/recycler.cmd\fR file:


.ft CO
.nf
logfile = /var/tmp/recycler.log
ad40 75 50  
no_recycle mo ^OPT003 
.fi
.ft
.SH RECYCLING HISTORIAN CARTRIDGES
The recycler recycles volumes listed in the historian's
catalog.  The volumes listed in the historian catalog have
been exported from a library or have been or are currently in
a \%manually-mounted device.
.PP
The \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/recycler.sh\fR(8) script is passed the name \fBhy\fR,
signifying volumes that reside in the historian catalog
so that it can cope with the possibility of the volumes
being recycled residing in an \%off-site storage facility.
Typically, the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/recycler.sh\fR(8) script sends email to the
administrator when this occurs to remind the administrator to bring
the \%off-site volume back on site so that it can be reused.
Volumes do not need to be on site to be drained of archive
copies unless such a volume contains the only available archive
copy of an \%off-line file.
.SH RECYCLING BY ARCHIVE SET
When the recycler recycles by archive set, it treats each
archive set as a small library that holds just the volumes
assigned to the archive set in the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd\fR file.
The volumes
that are identified as belonging to a recycling archive set are
removed from the recycler's version of the catalog for the library
that physically contains the volume.  Thus, only the volumes that
are not part of an archive set remain in the library catalog.
.PP
To enable recycling for a given archive set, it must have one of the
recycling options specified in the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd\fR file.  For
more information, see the \fBarchiver.cmd\fR(5) man page.
.SH MESSAGES
Consider the following message:
.br
.ft CO
.nf

Jan 22 10:17:17 jupiter sam-recycler[3400]: Cannot ioctl(F_IDSCF)
      Cannot find pathname for filesystem /samfs1 inum/gen 406/25

.ft
.fi
.PP
The preceding message means that the recycler could not set
the \fBrearchive\fR flag for a file.
When this happens, the recycler typically emits a message containing
the path name, as follows:
.br
.ft CO
.nf

Jan 22 10:17:17 jupiter sam-recycler[3400]: Cannot ioctl(F_IDSCF)
      /samfs1/testfile

.ft
.fi
.PP
However, in the first message, you see text beginning with \fBCannot find
pathname\&.\&.\&.\fR.  This means that the recycler failed in its attempt to 
convert the inode number (in the preceding example message, it
is inode number 406) and generation number (here, 25) into a path
name in the \fB/samfs1\fR file system.
.PP
The most likely reason for this to occur is that the file
was deleted between the time that the recycler determined it needed to
be rearchived and the time the recycler actually issued the system call
to set the rearchive flag.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR chmed (8),
.BR odlabel (8),
.BR recycler.sh (8).
.BR sam-archiverd (8),
.BR tplabel (8).
.PP
.BR archiver.cmd (5),
.BR mcf (5),
.BR recycler.cmd (5).
