.\" $Revision: 1.15 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH sam-catserverd 8 "12 Nov 2001"
.SH NAME
sam-catserverd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS media manager daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-catserverd
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsam-catserverd\fR daemon keeps track of media in Sun
StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS library catalogs.  A
library catalog is the central 
repository of all information needed by the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and
Sun \%SAM-QFS environments to find cartridges in an automated
library.  The library catalog file is a binary, \%UFS-resident
file that contains information about each slot in a library or
manual drive.  The information in the catalog includes the
Volume Serial Name (VSN), the capacity and space remaining, and the 
flags indicating the status of the VSN. 
.PP
When the \%\fBsam-catserverd\fR daemon starts, it checks for
the presence of a catalog file
for each automated library defined in the \fBmcf\fR file.
If a file is not found,
the \%\fBsam-catserverd\fR daemon creates a library catalog file
in the default
location, \fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/\fIfamily_set_name\fR.
The family set name is used for
the catalog file name.
Alternatively, a file can be specified by 
the user in the Additional Parameters field on the library definition
line in the \fBmcf\fR file. 
.PP
If the automated library is SCSI attached, the library catalog is
a \%one-to-one mapping between the library catalog entries and 
physical slots in the automated library.  However, if the 
automated library is \%network-attached, the library catalog is not a 
direct mapping to the slots, but it is a list of VSNs known to be
present in the automated library. 
.PP 
The library catalog contains the following information about each
VSN in the library:
.TP 3
\(bu
Status bits
.TP
\(bu
Media type
.TP
\(bu
Volume serial number
.TP
\(bu
Storage slot
.TP
\(bu
Partition  
.TP
\(bu
Count of access
.TP
\(bu
Capacity of volume
.TP
\(bu
Space left on volume
.TP
\(bu
Block size or sector size for optical media
.TP
\(bu
Label time
.TP
\(bu
Last modification time
.TP
\(bu
Last mount time
.TP  
\(bu
Bar Code
.TP
\(bu
First word address of PTOC (for optical media) or
last position found (for tape media).
.PP
If reserved VSNs are used, the following fields are also present:
.TP 3
\(bu
Time reservation made
.TP
\(bu
Archive set
.TP
\(bu
Owner 
.TP
\(bu
File system
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbuild_cat\fR(8),
\fBdump_cat\fR(8),
\fBexport\fR(8),
\fBimport\fR(8).
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(5).

