.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam-stagealld 8 "21 Feb 2003"
.SH NAME
sam-stagealld \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS associative staging daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sam-stagealld 
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sam-stagealld
is responsible for the associative staging feature.  It is initiated
by
.BR sam-fsd .
Associative staging is activated when a regular file that has the
associative staging attribute set is staged.  All files in
the same directory that have the associative staging attribute set are
staged. If a symbolic link has the associative staging
attribute set, the file pointed to by the symbolic link is staged.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stage (1),
.BR sam-fsd (8)
