.\" $Revision: 1.12 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH samexplorer 8 "05 June 2006"
.SH NAME
samexplorer \- Generates a Sun StorEdge QFS or Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS diagnostic report
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B samexplorer
[\f\-u\fR]
[\fIreport_name\fR]
[\fInum_lines\fR]
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B samexplorer
command produces a diagnostic report of the Sun StorEdge QFS
or Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS server configuration and collects log information.
.LP
The
.B samexplorer
command should be run as root.
The command generates a diagnostic report by default in file:
.br
.B /tmp/SAMreport.\fIhostname.YYYYMMDD.HHMMZ\fR.tar.gz
.LP
The report should be sent to your Sun Microsystems authorized service
provider or to Sun Microsystems technical support as specified in your
maintenance contract.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 14
[\f\-u\fR]
Generate separate output files in an unarchived/uncompressed format.
.TP
\fIreport_name\fR
The name of the diagnostic report file.
The default is
.B /tmp/SAMreport.\fIhostname.YYYYMMDD.HHMMZ\fR.tar.gz
.TP
\fInum_lines\fR
The number of lines to capture from each log file.
The default is 1000.
.SH EXAMPLE
.ft CO
.nf
sunfire# samexplorer

Report name:     /tmp/SAMreport.sunfire.20060530.1247CDT.tar.gz
Lines per file:  1000
Output format:   tar.gz (default) Use -u for unarchived/uncompressed.

Please wait.............................................
Please wait.............................................
Please wait......................................


The following files should now be ftp'ed to your support provider
as ftp type binary.

/tmp/SAMreport.sunfire.20060530.1247CDT.tar.gz


sunfire# samexplorer -u

Report name:     /tmp/SAMreport.sunfire.20060530.1252CDT
Lines per file:  1000
Output format:   unarchived/uncompressed

Please wait.............................................
Please wait.............................................
Please wait......................................


The following files should now be ftp'ed to your support provider
as ftp type binary.

/tmp/SAMreport.sunfire.20060530.1252CDT
/tmp/SAMreport.sunfire.20060530.1252CDT.fsmgr_text
/tmp/SAMreport.sunfire.20060530.1252CDT.dmpshm_data
/tmp/SAMreport.sunfire.20060530.1252CDT.samtrace_text
/tmp/SAMreport.sunfire.20060530.1252CDT.showqueue_text
/tmp/SAMreport.sunfire.20060530.1252CDT.archiver_data.tar
/tmp/SAMreport.sunfire.20060530.1252CDT.stager_data.tar

.fi
.ft
