.\" $Revision: 1.22 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samexport 8 "29 Jun 2000"
.SH NAME
samexport, export \- Export a cartridge from a robot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samexport 
\fR[\fB\-f\fR]
.IB eq : slot
.br
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samexport 
\fR[\fB\-f\fR]
.IB mediatype . vsn
.br
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/export 
\fR[\fB\-f\fR]
.IB eq : slot
.br
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/export 
\fR[\fB\-f\fR]
.IB mediatype . vsn
.br
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B samexport
sends a request to the library specified by
.I eq
to place the specified cartridge in the mail-slot of the library.
For the form
.IR mediatype . vsn ,
.I eq
and
.I slot
are determined from the catalog entry.  All other volumes on the cartridge
are also exported.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
The \fB\-f\fR option is used for network-attached StorageTek
automated libraries only. The \fB\-f\fR option will cause the
volume specified to be exported to the CAP (Cartridge Access Port) and the
SAM-FS or SAM-QFS catalog updated accordingly. The CAPID must be defined
in the stk parameters file. See the stk(8) man page for details on defining
the CAPID.
.LP
For the network-controlled libraries such as the
GRAU using the GRAU ACI interface, IBM 3494, or STK libraries using ACSLS and
not specifying the \fB\-f\fR option,
this utility only removes the catalog entry for the cartridge
from the catalog. Physical removal and addition of cartridges
within these libraries is performed by utilities supplied by GRAU, IBM,
and STK.
.LP
Volumes on cartridges exported from a library will be tracked in the
.BR historian (4).
The historian acts as a virtual library.
Volumes on cartridges that have been exported from a library will, by
default, be considered available for archiving and staging
activities. Operator intervention is required to provide
access to exported cartridges to satisfy load requests.
.LP
See the
.BR historian (4)
man page for details about the historian and for the default settings that
control access to exported cartridges.
.LP
Note:  A cartridge may be exported from the historian.  The information
about volumes on this cartridge will be lost.
.LP
The export and samexport commands are identical; the samexport name is
provided to avoid a conflict with the Bourne shell intrinsic of the same name.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR samimport (8),
.BR build_cat (8),
.BR dump_cat (8),
.BR sam-robotsd (8),
.BR mcf (5),
.BR stk (8),
.BR historian (4)
