." $Revision: 1.38 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH samfsdump 8 "27 Feb 2006"
.SH NAME
samfsdump, samfsrestore \- Dumps or restores SAM-QFS file control structure data
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsamfsdump\fR
\%[\fB\-b\ \fIbl_factor\fR]
\%[\fB\-d\fR]
\%\fB\-f\ \fIdump_file\fR
\%[\fB\-n\fR]
\%[\fB\-q\fR]
\%[\fB\-P\fR]
.if n .br
\%[\fB\-u\fR]
\%[\fB\-U\fR]
\%[\fB\-v\fR]
\%[\fB\-B\ \fIsize\fR]
\%[\fB\-H\fR]
\%[\fB\-I\ \fIinclude_file\fR]
\%[\fB\-S\fR]
\%[\fB\-T\fR]
.if n .br
\%[\fB\-W\fR]
\%[\fB\-X\ \fIexcluded_dir\fR]
\%[\fB\-Y\fR]
\%[\fB\-Z\ \fIdb_loadfile\fR]
.if n .br
[\fIfile \&.\&.\&.\fR]
.PP
\fBsamfsrestore\fR
\%[\fB\-a\fR]
\%[\fB\-b\ \fIbl_factor\fR]
\%[\fB\-d\fR]
\%\fB\-f\ \fIdump_file\fR
\%[\fB\-g\ \fIlog_file\fR]
\%[\fB\-i\fR]
\%[\fB\-l\fR]
\%[\fB\-r\fR]
\%[\fB\-s\fR]
\%[\fB\-t\fR]
\%[\fB\-v\fR]
\%[\fB\-x\fR]
\%[\fB\-B\ \fIsize\fR]
\%[\fB\-H\fR]
\%[\fB\-R\fR]
\%[\fB\-S\fR]
\%[\fB\-T\fR]
\%[\fB\-Z\ \fIdb_loadfile\fR]
\%[\fB\-2\fR]
[\fIfile \&.\&.\&.\fR]
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsamfsdump\fR command creates a dump file containing control
structure information for each specified \fIfile\fR.
This command must be entered after you have used the \fBcd\fR(1)
command to change to the
mount point of a SAM-QFS file system.
.PP
The \fBsamfsdump\fR command creates a dump file, as follows:
.TP 2
\(bu
If nothing is specified for \fIfile\fR,
the \fBsamfsdump\fR command
creates a dump file containing the control structures
for every file in the current directory and also for every file in
the current directory's subdirectories.
.TP
\(bu
If an individual file is specified for \fIfile\fR,
the \fBsamfsdump\fR command
creates a dump file containing the control structures
for that individual file.
.TP
\(bu
If a directory is specified for \fIfile\fR,
the \fBsamfsdump\fR command
creates a dump file containing the control structures
for every file in that directory and also for every file in
that directory's subdirectories.
.PP
Any \fIfile\fR specified with an absolute path is
stored in the dump file with an absolute path.  Any \fIfile\fR specified
with a relative path is stored in the dump file with its relative path.
.PP
The \fBsamfsrestore\fR command uses the contents of the dump file
to restore
control structures for all the files in the dump file or
for each specified
\fIfile\fR.  If a \fIfile\fR is specified, its path and file name must
match exactly what exists in the dump file.  By default, all files are
restored to the absolute or relative location as each file is
described in the dump file.  If the \fB\-s\fR option is specified,
however, all file names with an absolute path in the dump file
are restored relative to the current directory, using the entire path as
contained in the dump file.
.PP
The \fBsamfsdump\fR command does not create a dump of any data
associated with the files (unless the -P, -u or -U options are specified),
so no data can be restored from this dump file.  It is assumed that the data
associated with the dumped files has been archived in some way.  If a file
for which no archive copy is available is dumped, a warning message is issued
noting that this file will be marked as damaged when restored.
When that file is restored from the
dump file, it is marked as damaged by \fBsamfsrestore\fR.
Note that this warning can be explicitly suppressed by using
the \fB\-q\fR option.
.PP
You must be logged in as superuser (\fBroot\fR) in order to execute
the \fBsamfsdump\fR and \fBsamfsrestore\fR commands.
Sun Microsystems recommends that a site create \fBsamfsdump\fR dumps on a
periodic basis as part of a disaster recovery plan.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 10
\%\fB\-a\fR
Lists ACL settings from dumps. This is also possible for NFSv4 ACL's of OHSM dumps.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-b\ \fIbl_factor\fR
Specifies a blocking factor in units of 512 bytes.
When specified, all I/O to the dump image file is done in
multiples of the blocking factor.
There is no blocking done by default.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-d\fR
Enables debugging messages.
This option is useful only to Sun Microsystems and is used to trace execution
for verification purposes.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-f\ \fIdump_file\fR
Names the file to which the control structure data
dump is written to (by \fBsamfsdump\fR) or read from
(by \fBsamfsrestore\fR).  You must specify a \fIdump_file\fR.
.sp
If a dash character (\fB\-\fR) is specified for the \fIdump_file\fR,
\fBsamfsdump\fR writes the dump file to
\fBstdout\fP and \fBsamfsrestore\fR reads the dump file
from \fBstdin\fR.
.sp
The dump file data can be passed through appropriate filters, such as
compression or encryption, after being written by \fBsamfsdump\fR
or before being read by \fBsamfsrestore\fR.
.TP 10
\fB\-g\ \fIlog_file\fR
(\fBsamfsrestore\fP only) Generates a file of online directories and files.
For information on the format of this file, see the NOTES section
of this man page.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-i\fR
(\fBsamfsrestore\fP only) Prints the inode numbers of the files when listing the contents of the
dump.
For more listing options, see \%\fB\-l\fR, \%\fB\-t\fR,
and \%\fB\-2\fR options.
.TP 10
\fB\-I\ \fIinclude_file\fR
(\fBsamfsdump\fP only) Takes the list of files to dump from \fIinclude_file\fP.
This file has one relative or absolute path to be dumped per line.
After processing \fIinclude_file\fP, any [\fIfile\fR] arguments from the command
line are processed.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-l\fR
(\fBsamfsrestore\fP only) Prints one line per file.
This option is similar to the \fBsls\fR(8) command's \%\fB\-l\fR
option when listing the dump contents.
Note that this option is identified by
the lowercase letter `l', not a number '1'.
For more listing options, see the \%\fB\-i\fR, \%\fB\-t\fR,
and \%\fB\-2\fR options.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-n\fR
(Obsolete. \fBsamfsdump\fP only.) Always uses the new header format.
The new header
is incompatible with \fBsamfsrestore\fR prior to the 3.5.0 release level.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-P\fR
(\fBsamfsdump\fP only) Dumps the online data portions of files which are offline, but have
partial data online.
This option can considerably increase
the size of the dump file, as data and metadata are both being dumped.
You must take care to manage the increased size of the dump.
This option can be used to move file partial data by piping the output
of \fBsamfsdump\fR to the input of \fBsamfsrestore\fR.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-q\fR
(\fBsamfsdump\fP only) Suppresses warning messages for damaged files.
By default, \fBsamfsdump\fR writes warning messages for each file that
would be considered damaged if the dump were restored.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-r\fR
(\fBsamfsrestore\fP only) Replaces existing files when restoring control structures if the existing
files have an older modification time than the dumped files.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-s\fR
(\fBsamfsrestore\fP only) Removes leading slashes from file names prior to
restoring them.  This is useful if the dump was made with an absolute
path name and the dump is being restored to a different
location.  Any directories required for the restoration and not defined
in the dump file are automatically created.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-t\fR
(\fBsamfsrestore\fP only) Lists the content of the dump file rather than restoring the dump.
For more listing options, see the \%\fB\-i\fR, \%\fB\-l\fR,
and \%\fB\-2\fR options.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-u\fR
(\fBsamfsdump\fP only) Dumps the data portions of files without
at least one archive copy.
This option can considerably increase
the size of the dump file, as data and metadata are both being dumped.
You must take care to manage the increased size of the dump.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-U\fR
(\fBsamfsdump\fP only) Dumps the data portions of files which are online.
This option can considerably increase
the size of the dump file, as data and metadata are both being dumped.
If this option is used with segmented files, the archive copy information
is not preserved when the file is restored.
You must take care to manage the increased size of the dump.
This option can be used to move file systems by piping the output
of \fBsamfsdump\fR to the input of \fBsamfsrestore\fR.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-v\fR
Prints file names as each file is processed.
This option is superseded by the \fB\-l\fP or \fB\-2\fR options.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-B\ \fIsize\fR
Specifies a buffer size in units of 512 bytes.
Note that there are limits
on the buffer size, as specified in the error message when the limits have
been exceeded.
The default buffer size is 512 * 512 bytes.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-H\fR
For \fBsamfsdump\fR, creates the dump file without a dump header record.
For \fBsamfsrestore\fR, declares that the existing dump file
has no header record.
This option can be used to
create control structure dump files that can be concatenated using
the \fBcat\fR command.  For more information on this command, see
the \fBcat\fR(1) man page.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-R\fR
(\fBsamfsrestore\fP only) Replaces existing files when restoring control structures.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-S\fR
Perform only a scan to create a db_loadfile with the \fB\-Z\fR option.
When using \fB\-S\fR during samfsdump, no dump file is created and
\fB\-f\fR is not needed.  During samfsrestore, -S will create a 
db_loadfile from the dump file specified by \fb\-f\fR and no restore
is performed.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-T\fR
Displays statistics at command termination.
These statistics include the number of files and
directories processed, the number of errors and warnings, and
other information.  Example:
.sp
.ft CO
samfsdump statistics:
              Files:              52020
              Directories:        36031
              Symbolic links:     0
              Resource files:     8
              File segments:      0
              File archives:      0
              Damaged files:      0
              Files with data:    24102
              File warnings:      0
              Errors:             0
              Unprocessed dirs:   0
              File data bytes:    0
.ft
.sp
The numbers after the \fBFiles\fR, \fBDirectories\fR,
\fBSymbolic links\fR, and \fBResource files\fR keywords are the
counts of files,
directories, symbolic links, and \%removable-media files whose
inodes are contained in the dump.
.sp
\fBFile segments\fR refers to the number of data segments associated with
segmented files from the dump.
.sp
\fBFile archives\fR refers to the number of archive images associated with
the preceding \fBFiles\fR, \fBDirectories\fR, \fBSymbolic links\fR,
and \fBResource files\fR.
.sp
\fBDamaged files\fR refers to the number of \fBFiles\fR,
\fBDirectories\fR, \fBSymbolic links\fR, and \fBResource files\fR that
are either already marked damaged (for a \fBsamfsdump\fR)
or were damaged during a restore because they had no archive image
(for a \fBsamfsrestore\fR).
.sp
\fBFiles with data\fR refers to the number of \fBFiles\fR that
have online (full or partial) data dumped or restored.
.sp
\fBFile warnings\fR refers to the number of \fBFiles\fR, \fBDirectories\fR,
\fBSymbolic links\fR, and \fBResource files\fR that
would be damaged should the dump be restored because they had no
archive images at the time of the dump.
.sp
\fBErrors\fR refers to the
number of error messages that were printed during the dump or
restore.  These errors indicate a problem, but the problem is
not severe enough to cause an early exit from \fBsamfsdump\fR or
\fBsamfsrestore\fR.  Examples of errors during a restore are failing
to create a symbolic link and failing to change the owner or group of
a file.
Errors that might occur during a dump include having a path
name too long, failing to open a directory for reading,
failing to read a symbolic link or resource file,
or finding a file with an invalid mode.
.sp
\fBUnprocessed dirs\fR refers to the number of directories that
were not processed due to an error, such as being unable to create the
directory.
.sp
\fBFile data bytes\fR refers to the size of data that was dumped
(using options -P, -U, or -u) or restored.
.TP 10
\fB-W\fP
(Obsolete. \fBsamfsdump\fP only.)  Writes
warning messages during the dump process for files that would be damaged
if the dump were restored.
This option is retained for compatibility.
By default, these warning messages are now issued automatically.
For more information on controlling this behavior,
see the \%\fB\-q\fR option, which suppresses warning messages.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-X\ \fIexcluded_dir\fR
(\fBsamfsdump\fP only) Specifies directory paths to be excluded from the dump.
Relative paths without leading characters must be used, for example dir1/dir2.
The result is an empty directory dir1/dir2 in the dump file.  A directory that resolves
to \&. or \fBNULL\fR generates an error message.  Multiple (up to 10) directories
can be excluded by using multiple \%\fB\-X\fR options.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-Y\fR
(\fBsamfsdump\fP only) Specifies that the trailing list of files are lists
of files to dump.  Using this option helps improve samfsdump performance
by reducing the number of path lookups.  If - is specified as the trailing
list, standard input is used.
.sp
Each list must have one line per file, with tab separated inode number,
generation number, and file path.  The path must is relative to where 
\fBsamfsdump\fP is executed.
.sp
Example line: 1039 11 testdir2/rtest_f_61
.sp
Example usage: samfsdump -Y -f samfs1.dump /path/to/filelist
.sp
Example pipelined: samdb dump samfs1 | samfsdump -Y -f samfs1.dump -
.sp
If a sideband mysql database is being used by the target SAM filesystem, then
the file list can be generated using the \fBsamdb(8) dump\fP command.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-Z\ \fIdb_loadfile\fR
Specifies that a \fBsamdb(8)\fP db_loadfile should be created
as part of a samfsdump or samfsrestore.  This file is used to
populate a sideband mysql database using the \fBsamdb(8) load\fP command.
.sp
Use the \fB\-S\fR option to only produce the db_loadfile without performing
the usual samfsdump or samfsrestore operations.  If - is specified for the
load file standard output is used.
.TP 10
\%\fB\-2\fR
(\fBsamfsrestore\fP only) Writes two lines per file, similar to
the \fBsls\fR(1) command's \%\fB\-2\fR option, when listing the
contents of the dump.
For more listing options, see the \%\fB\-i\fR, \%\fB\-l\fR,
and \%\fB\-t\fR options.
.TP 10
\fIfile \&.\&.\&.\fR
Lists files to be dumped or restored.  Note that the names
given to restore must match exactly the names as they are stored in the
dump.  You can use \fBsamfsrestore\ \-t\fR to see how the names are stored.
.SH NOTES
A \fBsamfsrestore\fR should not be attempted on a Sun StorEdge QFS
shared file system
client.
.PP
The \fBsamfsdump\fR
output files compress to less than 25% of their original size.
.PP
If the \%\fB\-g\fR option is used, a log file is generated during
file system restoration.
This file contains one line per file that was online, or
partially online, at the time the file was dumped.
This line is divided into fields and contains the following
information:
.TP 7
\fBField\fR
\fBDescription\fR
.TP
1
The file type, which is indicated by one of the
following letters:
.sp
.nf
\(bu \fBd\fR indicates a directory.
\(bu \fBf\fR indicates a regular file.
\(bu \fBl\fR indiactes a symbolic link.
\(bu \fBR\fR indicates a removable media file.
\(bu \fBI\fR indicates a segment index.
\(bu \fBS\fR indicates a data segment.
.fi
.TP
2
The media type and Volume Serial Name (VSN)
in \fImedia_type\fB.\fIvsn\fR format.
.TP
3
The position on the media.
.TP
4
Either \fBonline\fR or \fBpartial\fR.
.TP
5
The path relative to the file system mount point.
.RE
.PP
After a \fBsamfsrestore\fR command is issued,
it is possible to restore files that were online,
prior to the dump, back to their online state.  You do this by
using the script in \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/restore.sh\fB.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following example creates a control structure dump of the entire
\fB/sam\fR file system:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
example# cd /sam
example# samfsdump -f /destination/of/the/dump/samfsdump.today
.ft
.fi
.PP
To restore a control structure dump to \fB/sam\fR:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
example# cd /sam
example# samfsrestore -f /source/of/the/dump/samfsdump.yesterday
.fi
.ft
.PP
To create a new \fBsamdb(8)\fP database load file of \fB/sam\fR:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
example# cd /sam
example# samfsdump -SZ /destination/samfsdbload.today
.PP
To create a dump of \fB/sam\fR using a list of files:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
example# cd /sam
example# samfsdump -Y -f /destination/of/samfsdump.today /source/of/samfslist.today
.PP
To create a new \fBsamdb(8)\fP load file from an existing dump file:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
example# samfsrestore -SZ /destination/samfsdbload.today -f /source/samfsdump.yesterday
.PP
To list ACL settings from an existing dump file:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
example# samfsrestore -ta -f /source/samfsdump.yesterday
.fi
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcat\fR(1),
\fBsls\fR(1),
\fBsamdb\fR(8).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
You may encounter messages while using the \fBsamfsdump\fR
or \fBsamfsrestore\fR command.  The following list shows several
possible messages and their explanations:
.TP 20
\fBMessage\fR
\fBExplanation\fR
.TP
\fIfile\fB: Unrecognised mode (0x..)\fR
\fBsamfsdump\fR is being asked to
dump a file that is not a regular file, directory, symbolic link, or
removable media file.  The Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems
allow the creation of block special,
character special, fifo, and other special files, but they do not function
correctly.  \fBsamfsdump\fR does not attempt to dump them.
.TP
\fIfile\fB: Warning! File will be damaged.\fR
If received during a \fBsamfsdump\fR, this means that
the file in question does not currently have any archive copies.
The file is dumped to the \fBsamfsdump\fR file, but if
the \fBsamfsdump\fR file is used
to restore this file, the file will be marked damaged.
.TP
\fIfile\fB: Warning! File is already damaged.\fR
If received during a \fBsamfsdump\fR, means that
the file is currently marked damaged.  During restoration,
the file will still be damaged.
.TP
\fIfile\fB: File was already damaged prior to dump\fR
If received during a \fBsamfsrestore\fR, this means
that the file was dumped with the \fBdamaged\fR flag set.
.TP
\fIfile\fB: File is now damaged\fR
If received during a \fBsamfsrestore\fR, this means that the
file was dumped when it had no archive images.
\fBsamfsdump\fR and \fBsamfsrestore\fR
do not dump file data.  They rely on the file's data having been archived.
Because the file no longer has any data associated with it,
it is marked \fBdamaged\fR.
.TP
\fB\&.: Not a SAM-FS file.\fR
You are attempting to dump files from a file system that is not
a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system, or you are attempting to
restore files from a \fBsamfsdump\fR dump file into a file system
that is not a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system.
.TP
\fIfile\fB: stat() id mismatch: expected: %d.%d, got %d.%d\fR
If received during a dump, this indicates one of two things.
If the \fB%d.\fR portions match, but the \fB\&.%d\fR portions differ,
then a directory or file was deleted and recreated
while \fBsamfsdump\fR was operating on it.  The file is not dumped.
If the \fB%d.\fR portions do not match, then a serious error has been
encountered; consult your service provider for help.
.TP
\fBCorrupt samfsdump file.  name length %d\fR
If received during a restore, this means that the path name of a
file to be restored was less than zero or larger than
\fBMAXPATHLEN\fR.  This should not occur.  \fBsamfsrestore\fR aborts.
.TP
\fBCorrupt samfsdump file. %s inode version incorrect\fR
During a restore, this
means that a the inode for the indicated file was in an old format.
This should not occur.  \fBsamfsrestore\fR aborts.
.TP
\fIfile\fB: pathname too long\fR
If received during a dump, this indicates that the path name of
the indicated file is longer than 1024 characters.  The file is not
dumped.
