." $Revision: 1.25 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samgrowfs 8  "29 Apr 2004"
.SH NAME
samgrowfs \- Adds disk partitions to an existing Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsamgrowfs\fR
[\fB\-V\fR]
\fIfsname\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsamgrowfs\fR command adds disk partitions to an Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
and Sun \%SAM-QFS file system
and allows the file system to grow.
.PP
The following procedure uses the \fBsamgrowfs\fR command to increase
the size of a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system:
.TP 3
1.
Unmount all the file systems you want to grow.
.TP
2.
In a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS environment,
idle all drives by entering
a \fBsamcmd idle \fIeq\fR and a \fBsamd stop\fR command.
For more information on these commands,
see the \fBsamcmd\fR(8) and \fBsamd\fR(1M) man pages.
.TP
3.
Edit the \fBmcf\fR file, save the changes, and quit the editor.
Up to 252 disk partitions can be specified in the \fBmcf\fR
file for a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system.
The new partitions must be placed after the existing partitions for
the specified family set \fIfsname\fR. It is important that
\fBsam\-fsd\fR be notified after any change to /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf
(see \fBsamd\fR(8)).
.TP
4.
Run the \fBsamgrowfs\fR(8) command on the \fIfsname\fR file system.
.TP
5.
Mount the \fIfsname\fR file system.
.PP
For more information on this procedure,
see the \fISun StorEdge QFS and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS File System
Administration Guide\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following arguments:
.TP 10
\fB\-V\fR
Lists configuration information but does not execute the command. 
.TP
\fIfsname\fR
Specifies the existing family set name of the file system that is to
grow.  This is the family set name as specified in the \fBmcf\fR
file.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example adds 2 partitions to an existing \%1-partition
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS file system.
The \fBmcf\fR file for the existing \%1-partition file system with
a family set name of \fBsamfs1\fR is as follows:
.sp
.ft CO
.nf
samfs1  10  ms  samfs1
/dev/dsk/c0t3d0s7  11  md  samfs1  -
.fi
.ft
.PP
The procedure is as follows:
.TP 3
\fR1.\fR
Unmount the \fBsamfs1\fR file system.
.sp
.ft CO
server# umount samfs1
.ft
.TP
\fR2.\fR
Kill the \fBsam-amld\fR process:
.sp
.ft CO
server# samd stop
.ft
.TP
\fR3.\fR
Edit the \fBmcf\fR file
and add the 2 new partitions for the file system with family set name
of \fBsamfs1\fR:
.sp
.ft CO
.nf
samfs1  10  ms  samfs1
/dev/dsk/c0t3d0s7  11  md  samfs1  -
/dev/dsk/c2t3d0s2  12  md  samfs1  -
/dev/dsk/c2t4d0s2  13  md  samfs1  -
.fi
.ft
.TP 3
\fR4.\fR
Use the samd(8) config command to propagate the file changes and restart the
system:
.sp
.ft CO
server# samd config
.ft
.TP
\fR5.\fR
Grow and mount the file system by entering the following commands:
.sp
.ft CO
.nf
server# samgrowfs samfs1
server# mount samfs1
.fi
.ft
.SH FILES
.TP 25
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fR
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and
Sun StorEdge QFS file systems.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsamcmd\fR(8),
\fBsamd\fR(8),
\fBsammkfs\fR(8).
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(5).
.PP
\fISun StorEdge QFS and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS File System
Administration Guide\fR.
.SH WARNINGS
As with creating any type of file system,
if you specify the wrong partition names, you risk 
damaging user or system data.
Be sure to specify partitions which are otherwise unused on your system.
Do not use overlapping partitions.
.PP
To grow a Sun StorEdge QFS file system, you must add a metadata partition
(\fBmm\fR) prior to issuing a \fBsamgrowfs\fR command.
Data partitions can be added as well as metadata partitions.
The added metadata partition contains block reservation information for
all added partitions. When adding a small metadata partition with large
data partitions, the small metadata partition may be too small to hold the
block reservation as well as other information, depending on total storage
added and DAU size. This condition may cause an error, or a very full metadata
partition after samgrowfs.
