.\" $Revision: 1.22 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH samimport 8 "23 April 2001"
.SH NAME
samimport \- Imports cartridges into a library or the historian
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samimport
\fR[[\fB\-v\ \fIvolser\fR] |  
\fR[\fB\-c\ \fInum \fB\-s\ \fIpool\fR]]
.if n
.br
\fR[\fB\-e\fR]
\fR[\fB\-l\fR]
\fR[\fB\-n\fR]
\fIeq\fR
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samimport 
\fB\-v\ \fIvolser\fR | \fB\-b\ \fIbarcode\fR
\fR[\fB\-n\fR]
\fB\-m\ \fItype\fR
\fIeq\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The first form of the \fBsamimport\fR command sends a
request to the automated library specified by \fIeq\fR to 
import media.  The cartridge is placed in the first available slot
in the library.  For example:
.PP
.ft CO
samimport 27
.ft
.PP
The second form of the \fBsamimport\fR command can be used only
when \fIeq\fR is the Equipment Identifier of the default \fBhistorian\fR(4)
and the cartridge is neither two-sided nor partitioned.
This form adds an entry to the historian's catalog
for the given \fItype\fR and the given \fIbarcode\fR or \fIvolser\fR.
At least one of
the \fB\-b\ \fIbarcode\fR or \fB\-v\ \fIvolser\fR identifiers must
be present.  For example:
.PP
.ft CO
samimport -b 007001 -m lt 27
.ft
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts several options.
Some of the options affect only certain automated libraries.
See the option descriptions and the NOTES section for information pertinent
to \%vendor-specific automated libraries.
The options for the \fBsamimport\fR command are as follows:
.TP 10
\fB\-b\ \fIbarcode\fR
The barcode assigned to the cartridge.
If the second form of the command is used, either
a \fB\-v\ \fIvolser\fR or a \fB\-b\ \fIbarcode\fR option is required.
.TP
\fB\-c\ \fInum \fB\-s \fIpool\fR
(Network-attached StorageTek automated libraries only.)
.sp
For StorageTek automated libraries using the first form of the
\fBsamimport\fR command, either a \fB\-v\ \fIvolser\fR identifier
or a \fB\-c\ \fInum \fB\-s\ \fIpool\fR identifier must be used.
If used, the
\fB\-c\ \fInum\fR and \fB\-s\ \fIpool\fR
options must be specified together.
.sp
The \fB\-c\ \fInum\fR option specifies the number of volumes to be
taken from the scratch pool specified by the \fB\-s\ \fIpool\fR option.
.sp
The \fB\-s\ \fIpool\fR option specifies the scratch pool from
which \fInum\fR volumes should be taken and added to the catalog.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR
Specifies that all newly added cartridges be audited.
This includes an EOD search and updating the catalog with actual
capacity and space-remaining values.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR
(Network-attached StorageTek automated libraries only.)
.sp
The \fB\-l\fR option requests that the new VSN numbers be written to
standard output.  If present, this option must be specified in
conjunction with the \fB\-c\ \fInum\fR and \fB\-s\ \fIpool\fR options.
.TP
\fB\-m\ \fItype\fR
The media type of the cartridge.
For more information on valid media type codes, see
the \fBmcf\fR(5) man page.
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
Specifies that the media is unlabeled foreign tape (not Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS 
nor Sun \%SAM-QFS media). 
It is write protected and can be only used for read access.
.TP
\fB\-v\ \fIvolser\fR
(Network-attached ADIC/GRAU, StorageTek, and IBM 3494 automated
libraries only.
For the IBM 3494 library, this option is accepted only
when running in shared mode; for more information, see
the \fBibm3494\fR(4) man page.)
.sp
This option creates a catalog entry with 
\fIvolser\fR as the barcode.  Physical import and export of cartridges
within ADIC/Grau and StorageTek libraries are performed by utilities
supplied by the vendor. 
.TP
\fIeq\fR
The Equipment Identifier as entered in the \fBmcf\fR file.
For more information on the \fBmcf\fR file, see the \fBmcf\fR(5) man page.
.sp
If the first form of the \fBsamimport\fR command is used,
\fIeq\fR must be the equipment identifier of an automated libarary.
.sp
If the second form of the \fBsamimport\fR command is used,
\fIeq\fR must be the equipment number of the default historian.
.SH NOTES
If you are using the first form of the command with
a \%network-attached StorageTek automated library,
you can identify the cartridge being imported by using either
the \%\fB\-v\ \fIvolser\fR option or by using the \%\fB\-s\ \fIpool\fR
and \%\fB\-c\ \fInum\fR options together.
.SH FILES
.TP 10
\fBmcf\fR
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsamexport\fR(8),
\fBsam-robotsd\fR(8).
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(5).
.PP
\fBhistorian\fR(4).


