." $Revision: 1.56 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH sammkfs 8  "21 Feb 2008"
.SH NAME
sammkfs, samfsinfo \- Constructs or displays information for a Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/sammkfs\fR
\%[\fB\-a\ \fIallocation_unit\fR]
\%[\fB\-i\ \fIinodes\fR]
\%[\fB\-P\fR]
\%[\fB\-S\fR]
\%[\fB\-V\fR]
\fIfs_name\fR
.PP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/samfsinfo\fR
\fIfs_name\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsammkfs\fR command
creates a Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, or Sun \%SAM-QFS
file system from the disk partitions
that belong to the family set \fIfs_name\fR, where
\fIfs_name\fR
is the family set name as defined in the \fBmcf\fR file.
Up to 252 disk partitions can be specified in the \fBmcf\fR
file for a Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS,
or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system.
The \fBsammkfs\fR command can also be used to recreate a file system after
a disaster.
.PP
The \fBsammkfs\fR command can create either a version 2 file system that
is backwards compatible with previous releases, or a version 2A file system
that has new features, but is not compatible with previous releases.
By default, a version 2A file system is created.  See \fB\-P\fR parameter
below for details on the new features, and how to create a version 2
file system.

The \fBsammkfs\fR command aligns the block allocation bit maps and
round robins them on the metadata devices for improved performance.
This behavior is  backwards compatible with previous releases.
The option feature \fBAligned Maps\fR is set.
.PP
The \fBsamfsinfo\fR command displays the structure of an
existing Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS,
or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system.
The output is similar to that obtained
by using the \fB\-V\fR option to the \fBsammkfs\fR command.
.SH OPTIONS
These commands accept the following options:
.TP 10
\fB\-a\ \fIallocation_unit\fR
Specifies the disk allocation unit (DAU).  The DAU is the basic unit
of online storage.  When you specify a DAU size, you specify the
number of \%1024-byte (1 kilobyte) blocks to be allocated for a file.
.sp
The DAU size you can specify depends on the type of file system being
initialized, as follows:
.sp
.RS 10
.TP 3
\(bu
The Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS file system is an \fBms\fR file system.
The disk devices in it are all \fBmd\fR devices.
Both data and metadata are written to the \fBmd\fR devices.
The \fIallocation_unit\fR specifies the DAU to be
used for the \fBmd\fR devices.  Possible \fIallocation_unit\fR
specifications are \fB16\fR, \fB32\fR, or \fB64\fR (the default).
.TP 3
\(bu
The Sun StorEdge QFS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems are \fBma\fR file systems.
The metadata in these file systems is written to \fBmm\fR devices.
The disk devices in these file systems are specified as
either \fBmd\fR, \fBmr\fR, or \fBg\fIXXX\fR devices, as follows:
.sp
.RS 3
.TP 3
-
For the \fBmd\fR devices, possible \fIallocation_unit\fR
specifications are \fB16\fR, \fB32\fR, or \fB64\fR (the default).
A single file system cannot have \fBmd\fR devices mixed among
the \fBmr\fR and \fBg\fIXXX\fR devices.
.TP
-
For \fBmr\fR devices, the DAU is fully adjustable.
Specify an \fIallocation_unit\fR that is a multiple of 8 in the
following range for \fBmr\fR devices:
8\ \(<=\ \fIallocation_unit\fR\ \(<=\ 65528.  The default is \fB64\fR.
.TP 3
-
For \fBg\fIXXX\fR devices, which specify striped groups, the
DAU is fully adjustable.
If the file system contains striped groups,
the minimum unit of disk space allocated
is the DAU multiplied by the number of members in the striped group.
Specify an \fIallocation_unit\fR that
is a multiple of 8 in the following range for \fBg\fIXXX\fR devices:
8\ \(<=\ \fIallocation_unit\fR\ \(<=\ 65528.  The default is \fB256\fR.
.RE
.RE
.PP
.RS 13
You can mix \fBmr\fR and \fBg\fIXXX\fR devices
in a single Sun StorEdge QFS or Sun StorEdge \%SAM-QFS file system.
If these device types are mixed, the \fIallocation_unit\fR specified is
used for both device types.  If no \fIallocation_unit\fR is specified,
the DAU size used for each type of device is \fB256\fR.
.RE
.RE
.PP
.TP 10
\fB\-i\ \fIinodes\fR
Specifies the number of inodes to be allocated for this file system.
This is the total number of user inodes that can be
used for the life of this file system. In Sun StorEdge QFS,
Sun Storedge \%SAM-FS, and
Sun \%SAM-QFS version 2 superblock file systems, a number of
inodes are reserved for file system usage, and are unavailable to the
user. This number is in addition to the specified number of user inodes.
The actual number of inodes available vary from that specified, due to
rounding to metadata DAU size.
.sp
NOTE:  By specifying this
option, you eliminate the possibility of ever
increasing the number of inodes for the file system.
Therefore, Sun does not recommend the use of this option.
.sp
When this option is specified, later use
of the \fBsamgrowfs\fR(8) command increases the size of
the file system, but it cannot increase the number of allowable
inodes.
For more information on enlarging file systems, see the WARNINGS section
of this man page and the \fBsamgrowfs\fR(8) man page.
.TP 10
\fB\-P\fR
Specifies that a previous version of the file system be created.
This version creates a version 2 superblock and is compatible with
Sun \%SAM-FS version 4.6.  This version cannot use the following features
however:  large host table, extended attributes, and online grow.
Without the \fB\-P\fR parameter, a version
2A superblock is created, the above features are available, and the
file system is not usable with Sun \%SAM-FS version 4.6 or previous.
.TP 10
\fB\-S\fR
Indicates that this file system is shared.
In order to mount the file system as a Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system,
you must also create a \fBhosts.\fIfs_name\fR configuration file.
For more information on this configuration file and other
aspects of the Sun QFS shared file system,
see the \fISun StorEdge QFS and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS File System
Administration Guide\fR.  For information on configuring a hosts
file, see the \fBhosts.fs\fR(5) man page.
.TP 10
\fB\-V\fR
Writes configuration information to standard output but does not
execute the \fBsammkfs\fR command.
This information can be used to create a new file system.
.sp
The \fBsamfsinfo\fR command should be used to generate
configuration information for an existing file system.
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1.  The following command creates a Sun \%SAM-QFS
file system with a DAU
size of 128 kilobytes:
.PP
.ft CO
server#  sammkfs -a 128 samfs1
.ft
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP 25
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fR
The configuration file for a Sun StorEdge QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS,
or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system
.SH WARNINGS
As with creating any
type of file system, if you specify the wrong partition names,
you risk
damaging user or system data.  Be sure to specify partitions that
are otherwise unused on your system.  Do not use overlapping partitions.
.PP
With Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS 4.1 and greater \fIAND\fR Solaris 64bit kernels which support
large disk devices (greater than 1 TB), it is possible to have partitions
that are greater than 1 TB. Note that these file systems are not usable
on Solaris systems that do not support large disk devices.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBdd\fR(8),
\fBsamgrowfs\fR(8),
\fBundamage\fR(8).
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(5).
.PP
\fISun StorEdge QFS and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS File System Administration
Guide\fR.
.PP
\fISun StorEdge \%SAM-FS Storage and Archive Management Guide\fR.
.SH WARNINGS
Be careful when using the \%\fB\-i\ \fIinodes\fR option for this command.
By using this option, you dictate the maximum number of inodes allowed
for the life of this file system.  This eliminates the possibility
of ever using the \fBsamgrowfs\fR(8) command to increase the number
of files in this file system.  After a file system is made
with \fB\-i\fR specified, the \fBsamgrowfs\fR(8) command can only be
used to increase the size of the file system in terms of bytes.
.SH NOTES
\fIData alignment\fR refers to matching the allocation unit of the RAID
controller with the \fIallocation_unit\fR of the file system.
A mismatched
alignment causes a \%read-modify-write operation for I/O that is less
than the block size.
The optimal alignment formula is as follows:
.PP
\fIallocation_unit\fR = \fIRAID_stripe_width\fR * \fInumber_of_data_disks\fR
.PP
For example, if a \%RAID-5 unit has a total of 8 disks with 1 of
the 8 being the parity disk, the number of data disks is 7.
If the RAID stripe width is 64 kilobytes,
then the optimal \fIallocation_unit\fR is 64 * 7 = 448.
