." $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems 
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samncheck 8  "18 Dec 1996"
.SH NAME
samncheck \- Generates pathnames versus i-numbers for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B samncheck
.I mount_point
.I i-number
[
.I i-number ...
]
.PD
.PP
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B samncheck
generates a pathname in the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system mounted on
.I mount_point
for each
.I i-number
listed in the command line.
.B samncheck
must be run with root permissions.
.LP
The output from 
.B samncheck
is one line per 
.I i_number
which represents an existing inode in the file system.  The
.I i_number 
followed by the current generation number for that inode is
displayed, followed by a tab and a pathname.    Note that there
may be many pathnames to a given 
.I i_number;
.B samncheck
reports just one.
.LP
Nonexistant 
.I i_numbers
are silently ignored.
.PD
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.RS
.nf
.ft CO
bilbo# samncheck /sam 1 2 3 4 5 18
1.1     /sam/.inodes
2.2     /sam/
4.4     /sam/.ioctl
5.5     /sam/.archive
18.3    /sam/file
.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ncheck(1)

