.\" $Revision: 1.25 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH samquota 8 "12 Jan 2004"
.SH NAME
samquota \- Reports, sets, or resets quota information
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsamquota\fR
\%[\fB\-a | \-A\ \fIadminsetID\fR]
\%[\fB\-e\fR]
\%[\fB\-g | \-G\ \fIgroupID\fR]
\%[\fB\-h\fR]
\%[\fB\-k\fR]
\%[\fB\-u | \-U\ \fIuserID\fR]
\%[\fIfile\fR]
.sp
\fBsamquota\fR
\%[\fB\-b\ \fIcount\fB:\fItype\fR[:\fIscope\fR]]
\%[\fB\-f\ \fIcount\fB:\fItype\fR[:\fIscope\fR]]
\%[\fB\-h\fR]
\%[\fB\-i\fR]
\%[\fB\-k\fR]
\%[\fB\-p\fR]
\%[\fB\-t\ \fIinterval\fR:\fIscope\fR]
\%[\fB\-w\fR]
\%[\fB\-x\ \fIaction\fR:\fIscope\fR]
\%[\fB\-A\ \fIadminsetID\fR]
\%[\fB\-G\ \fIgroupID\fR]
\%[\fB\-O\fR]
\%[\fB\-U\ \fIuserID\fR]
\%[\fIfile\fR]
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsamquota\fR command displays quota usage statistics and
can be used to edit quotas, grace periods, and usages for users, groups,
and admin sets.
This command supports file counts and online block counts.
Note that some options are mutually exclusive.
.PP
Only a superuser can use this command to change
quotas.  End users can use a subset of this command's options to
display quota usage and
to display limit information.  For more information on the \%end-user version
of this command, see the \fBsquota\fR(1) man page.
.PP
By default, \fBsamquota\fR(8)
writes the user's applicable GID/UID quotas and usages on
all mounted Sun StorEdge \%QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS, and
Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems
to \fBstdout\fR.
.SH ADMIN SETS AND DIRECTORY/PROJECT QUOTAS
.PP
An admin set quota applies to all files and directories on a file system
that have their admin set attribute set to the given value.
The main use of admin set quotas is to effect
directory or project quotas.
They can be used to effect directory quotas by setting a directory's
admin set ID to a unique value and using \fBsamquota\fR(8) to set
quotas for that value.
All subdirectories and files subsequently created beneath the directory
then inherit the value, and the admin set's quota limits apply to them.
Conversely,
a project quota can be effected by choosing a set of project directories,
setting their admin set ID values to a single unique value,
and using \fBsamquota\fR(8) to set quotas for that ID.
Note in either case that newly created files inherit an admin set ID
from the directory in which they are created;
the admin set IDs do not change if the file is moved to
a new directory with a different admin set ID.
.PP
You can use the \fBsamchaid\fR(8) command to set admin set IDs.
The \fBsamchaid\fR(8) command allows system administrators to assign
files and directories to individual admin sets.
Admin set IDs are not tied to any set of permissions
associated with the user.  That is, a user can have a set of
directories and files on one Sun StorEdge \%QFS, Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS,
or Sun \%SAM-QFS
file system with a particular
admin set ID, and the same user can have another set of directories and files
on another file system (or even the same one) with a completely
different admin set ID.
A writable file is therefore used as a surrogate to determine that a user
has permission to view an admin set's quota values.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 10
\%\fB\-a\fR
Specifies admin set quota statistics for \fIfile\fR.
This option is not allowed in combination with the \fB\-A\fR option or
any of the setting options.
.TP
\%\fB\-b\ \fIcount\fB:\fItype\fB[:\fIscope\fR]
Sets soft, hard, or \%in-use block allocation limits.
This setting can pertain to either online files or to the total
number of files.
Note that a colon (\fB:\fR) is used to separate each component.
.IP
\fIcount\fR specifies the number of blocks for the limit
and must be an integer number in the following range:
.br
0 \(<= \fIcount\fR \(<= (2**63) -1.
.IP
By default, the \fIcount\fR specification
indicates a number of \%512-byte blocks.
If the \%\fB-k\fR option is also specified, the \fIcount\fR
specification is interpreted as a number of \%1024-byte blocks.
.IP
By default, the integer specified for \fIcount\fR is interpreted
as it is written.  You can append a unit multiplier to the \fIcount\fR
value, however, to force the system to interpret \fIcount\fR as a larger
number.  These unit multipliers are as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 15
\fBMultiplier\fR
\fBInterpretation\fR
.TP
\fBk\fR or \fBK\fR
Specifies 1000.  For example, specifying \fB2k\fR is interpreted as
2000.
.TP
\fBm\fR or \fBM\fR
Specifies 1,000,000.  For example, specifying \fB80M\fR is interpreted
as 80,000,000.
.TP
\fBg\fR or \fBG\fR
Specifies 1,000,000,000.
.TP
\fBt\fR or \fBT\fR
Specifies 10**12.
.TP
\fBp\fR or \fBP\fR
Specifies 10**15.
.RE
.IP
\fItype\fR specifies the type of limit.
Possible \fItype\fR specifications are as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 15
\fItype\fR
\fBInterpretation\fR
.TP
\fBs\fR or \fBsoft\fR
Specifies that the \fBsamquota\fR command is being used to reset
a soft limit.
.TP
\fBh\fR or \fBhard\fR
Specifies that the \fBsamquota\fR command is being used to reset
a hard limit.
.TP
\fBu\fR or \fBinuse\fR
Specifies that the \fBsamquota\fR command is being used to reset
the \%in-use counter.
Typically, this is set only by the \fBsamfsck\fR(8) command and
other system administration tools.
.RE
.IP
\fIscope\fR specifies the scope of the limit.
Possible \fIscope\fR specifications are as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 15
\fIscope\fR
\fBInterpretation\fR
.TP
\fBo\fR or \fBonline\fR
Specifies that the \fBsamquota\fR command is being used to reset
an online limit.  For Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems,
files that are released (offline)
are not counted in the online block usage.
.TP
\fBt\fR or \fBtotal\fR
Specifies that the \fBsamquota\fR command is being used to reset
a total limit.  For Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems,
both online and offline files are
used to compute the total block usage.
.IP
If no \fIscope\fR is specified both the online and total limits are set.
.RE
.IP
Example.  The following command line sets a soft limit of 120,000
\%512-byte blocks to be occupied
by user \fBgeorge\fR's files in file system \fBqfs22\fR:
.IP
\fBsamquota -b 120k:s -U george /qfs22\fR
.TP
\%\fB\-e\fR
Writes the quota information from this command line in an
executable format.
You can use this option if you want the system to put
the information from this command into a file for editing.
.IP
.ft CO
.nf
server# samquota -eG sam /qfs1
# Type  ID
#                  Limits
#            soft            hard
# Files
# Blocks
# Grace Periods
#
samquota -G 101 \\
      -f     1000:s -f     1200:h \\
      -b   100000:s -b   120000:h \\
                 -t  1d   /qfs1
.fi
.ft
.TP
\%\fB\-f\ \fIcount\fB:\fItype\fB[:\fIscope\fR]
Sets soft, hard, or \%in-use file limits for a file system.
Note that a colon (\fB:\fR) is used to separate
each component.
.IP
\fIcount\fR specifies the number of files for the limit
and must be an integer number in the following range:
.br
0 \(<= \fIcount\fR \(<= (2**63) -1.
.IP
If the \%\fB-k\fR option is also specified, any \fIcount\fR
specification referring to blocks is interpreted in 1024-byte blocks
instead of 512-byte blocks (by multiplying by 2).
.IP
By default, the integer specified for \fIcount\fR is interpreted
as it is written.  You can append a unit multiplier to the \fIcount\fR
value, however, to force the system to interpret \fIcount\fR as a larger
number.  These unit multipliers are as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 15
\fBMultiplier\fR
\fBInterpretation\fR
.TP
\fBk\fR or \fBK\fR
Specifies 1000.  For example, specifying \fB2k\fR is interpreted as
2000.
.TP
\fBm\fR or \fBM\fR
Specifies 1,000,000.  For example, specifying \fB80M\fR is interpreted
as 80,000,000.
.TP
\fBg\fR or \fBG\fR
Specifies 1,000,000,000.
.TP
\fBt\fR or \fBT\fR
Specifies 10**12.
.TP
\fBp\fR or \fBP\fR
Specifies 10**15.
.RE
.IP
\fItype\fR specifies the type of limit.
Possible \fItype\fR specifications are as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 15
\fItype\fR
\fBInterpretation\fR
.TP
\fBs\fR or \fBsoft\fR
Specifies that the \fBsamquota\fR command is being used to reset
a soft limit.
.TP
\fBh\fR or \fBhard\fR
Specifies that the \fBsamquota\fR command is being used to reset
a hard limit,
.TP
\fBu\fR or \fBinuse\fR
Specifies that the \fBsamquota\fR command is being used to reset
the \%in-use counter.
Typically, this is set only by the \fBsamfsck\fR(8) command and
other system administration tools.
.RE
.IP
\fIscope\fR specifies the scope of the limit.
Possible \fIscope\fR specifications are as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 15
\fIscope\fR
\fBInterpretation\fR
.TP
\fBo\fR or \fBonline\fR
Specifies that the \fBsamquota\fR command is being used to reset
an online limit.  There is no difference between online and total file usage.
.TP
\fBt\fR or \fBtotal\fR
Specifies that the \fBsamquota\fR command is being used to reset
a total limit.  There is no difference between online and total file usage.
.IP
If no \fIscope\fR is specified both the online and total limits are set.
.RE
.IP
Example.  The following command line sets a soft limit of 120
files for user \fBmartha\fR in file system \fBqfs222\fR:
.IP
\fBsamquota -U martha -b 120:s /qfs222\fR
.TP
\%\fB\-g\fR
Returns group quota statistics for \fIfile\fR.
This option is not allowed in combination with the \fB\-G\fR option or
any of the setting options.
.TP
\%\fB\-h\fR
Provides a brief usage summary.
.TP
\%\fB\-i\fR
Zeros all limits.
This option reinitializes the quota specifications by clearing
all fields in the quota records except the \%in-use fields.  It
then resets the fields to conform to the new specifications on
the command line.
.TP
\%\fB\-k\fR
Specifies that the command interpret or display
all storage units (block quantities) in units
of \%1024-byte blocks.
When specified, all information on the command line is assumed to
be in units of 1024 bytes,
and all information is returned in multiples of 1024 bytes.
.IP
Example 1.  The following command line specifies a hard quota limit of
256,000 \%1024-byte blocks (or, equivalently, 512,000 \%512-byte blocks)
for group \fBadm\fR, in file system \fBqfs4\fR:
.IP
\fBsamquota -G adm -k -b 256k:hard /qfs4\fR
.IP
Example 2.  The following command line sets a soft limit of
120 \%1024-byte blocks (or, equivalently, 240 512-byte blocks) to be
occupied by the files for user \fBfred\fR in file system \fBqfs2\fR:
.IP
\fBsamquota -U fred -k -b 120:soft /qfs2\fR
.TP
\%\fB\-p\fR
Writes updated quota statistics to \fBstdout\fR if you are
changing preestablished quota values or limits.
.TP
\%\fB\-t\ \fIinterval\fR:\fIscope\fR
Specifies the time to be used for the soft limit grace periods.
.IP
\fIinterval\fR specifies the interval to use for the grace periods.
By default, the integer specified for \fIinterval\fR is interpreted
in units of seconds.  You can append a unit multiplier
to the \fIinterval\fR
value, however, to force the system to interpret \fIinterval\fR
as a larger unit.  These unit multipliers are as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 15
\fBMultiplier\fR
\fBInterpretation\fR
.TP
\fBw\fR
Specifies weeks.  For example, specifying \fB10w\fR is interpreted as
ten weeks.
.TP
\fBd\fR
Specifies days.
.TP
\fBh\fR
Specifies hours.
.TP
\fBm\fR
Specifies minutes.
.TP
\fBs\fR (default)
Specifies seconds.
.RE
.IP
The \fIinterval\fR must be an integer number in the following
range:
.br
0 \(<= \fIinterval\fR \(<= (2**31) - 1.
.IP
Note that (2**31) - 1 = 2,147,483,647, which means that the maximum
specification, in seconds, would be 2147483647, which is about 68
years.
.IP
Example.  The following command line specifies an interval of 7
days and 12 hours for the online and total grace periods of user \fBadele\fR
in the \fBmyqfs\fR file system:
.IP
\fBsamquota -U adele -t 7d12h /myqfs\fR
.TP
\%\fB\-u\fR
Returns user quota statistics for the owner of \fIfile\fR.
This option is not allowed in combination with the \fB\-U\fR option or
any of the setting options.
.TP
\%\fB\-w\fR
Suppresses messages.  By default, \fBsamquota\fR generates
warning messages and
requests confirmation before changing any quota values maintained
by the system.  When this option is specified on the command line
in conjunction with the \%\fB-b\fR, \%\fB-f\fR, or \%\fB-x\fR
options, it suppresses both the warning messages
and the confirmation requests.
.TP
\%\fB\-x\ \fIaction\fR:\fIscope\fR
Adjusts the soft limit grace period timers.  After a user reaches
a soft limit, a certain amount of time can elapse before a user
is not allowed to create any more files in the file system.  This
option allows you to override the existing quota mechanism and
temporarily respecify the consequences of having reached the soft limit.
.IP
\fIaction\fR specifies what to do with the grace period timer.
Note that the soft limit grace period is set with the \%\fB-t\fR option.
Possible \fIaction\fR specifications are as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 15
\fIaction\fR
\fBInterpretation\fR
.TP
\fBclear\fR
Specifies that the current grace period be ended and the grace
period counter be reset to zero.  The grace period counter is
restarted the next time a file or block is allocated.
.TP
\fBreset\fR
Specifies that the current grace period be ended and that the
grace period counter be restarted immediately.
.TP
\fBexpire\fR
Specifies that the current grace period be ended and that no new
files or blocks be allocated until the user, group, or admin set
frees blocks and/or files and is again under the soft limit.
.TP
\fIinterval\fR
\fIinterval\fR specifies the interval to use for the grace period.
Specifying an \fIinterval\fR sets the grace period to expire at a
new time.
The \fIinterval\fR must be an integer number in the following
range:
.br
0 \(<= \fIinterval\fR \(<= (2**31) - 1.
.IP
Note that (2**31) - 1 = 2,147,483,647, which means that the
maximum specification, in seconds, would be 2147483647,
which is about 68 years.
.IP
The timer is set to the given value, and starts counting immediately.
If the quota goes under the soft limit, it will be reset to zero at
that time.
.IP
By default, the integer specified for \fIinterval\fR is interpreted
in units of seconds.  You can append a unit multiplier
to the \fIinterval\fR
value, however, to force the system to interpret \fIinterval\fR
as a larger unit, and can concatenate these units.
These unit multipliers are as follows:
.RS 15
.TP 15
\fBMultiplier\fR
\fBInterpretation\fR
.TP
\fBw\fR
Specifies weeks (times 7*24*60*60).
For example, specifying \fB10w\fR is interpreted as ten weeks
or 10*7*24*60*60 seconds.
.TP
\fBd\fR
Specifies days (times 24*60*60).
.TP
\fBh\fR
Specifies hours (times 60*60).
.TP
\fBm\fR
Specifies minutes (times 60).
.TP
\fBs\fR (default)
Specifies seconds.
.RE
.RE
.IP
Example.  Admin set \fBpubs\fR is over its soft limit on
file system \fBqfs50\fR, and its grace period has expired.  You
can reset the grace periods by using the following command:
.IP
\fBsamquota -x 1d2h -A pubs /qfs50\fR
.IP
If the preceding command is executed at 1100 on Thursday, the
grace period for \fBpubs\fR is reset to expire at 1300 on Friday.
.TP
\%\fB\-A\ \fIadminsetID\fR
Generates a quota report for an admin set, or, when specified in
conjunction with options that reset values, resets the values for
the admin set specified.  Specify an
integer for the \fIadminsetID\fR.
.TP
\%\fB\-G\ \fIgroupID\fR
Generates a quota report for a group, or when specified in
conjunction with options that reset values, resets the values for
the group specified.  Specify an
integer identifier or a group name for the \fIgroupID\fR.
.TP
\%\fB\-O\fR
Lists only online values in reports.  The default is to list both online and
total values.
.TP
\%\fB\-U\ \fIuserID\fR
Generates a quota report for a user, or, when specified in
conjunction with options that reset values, resets the values for
the user specified.  Specify an
integer identifier or a user name for the \fIuserID\fR.
.TP
\%\fIfile\fR
Specifies that the quota information pertain to a specific file.
A user is allowed to examine the group, user,
or admin set quotas of any file for which the user has write permissions.
The information displayed differs depending on whether or not the
command is issued by a user who has write permission to \fIfile\fR, as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 3
\(bu
If the user issuing this command has write permission to \fIfile\fR,
the command generates information on
the applicable admin set, group, and user quotas that apply to \fIfile\fR.
.TP
\(bu
If the user issuing this command does not have write permission to \fIfile\fR,
the command generates information for only the user's user ID and group ID quotas
for the file system on which \fIfile\fR resides.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1.  The following command initializes a quota for group \fBsam\fR
on the file system mounted on \fB/qfs1\fR:
.sp
.ft CO
.nf
server# samquota -G sam -f 1000:s -f 1200:h -b 100k:s -b 120k:h -t 1d /qfs1
.fi
.ft
.PP
The group is given the following:
.TP 3
\(bu
Soft limits of 1000 files and 100,000 512-byte blocks (about 50 megabytes)
.TP
\(bu
Hard limits of 1200 files and 120,000 512-byte blocks
.TP
\(bu
A grace period of 1 day (24 hours)
.PP
Example 2.  The following example initializes a quota for admin set 17
on the file system that \fB/qfs1/sol\fR is part of:
.sp
.ft CO
.nf
server# samquota -A 17 -k -f 10k:s -f 20k:h -b 10m:s -b 15m:h -t 1w /qfs1/sol
.ft
.fi
.PP
The admin set is given the following:
.TP 3
\(bu
Soft limits of 10,000 files and 10,000,000 1024-byte blocks (10.24 gigabytes)
.TP
\(bu
Hard limits of 20,000 files and 15,000,000 1024-byte blocks (15.36 gigabytes)
.TP
\(bu
A grace period of 1 week (168 hours)
.SH EXIT STATUS
This command returns the following:
.TP 3
\(bu
0 on successful completion.
.TP
\(bu
1 on a usage or argument error.
.TP
\(bu
10 on an execution error.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\fIfilesytem\fB/\&.quota_a\fR
Admin set quota information
.TP
\fIfilesystem\fB/\&.quota_g\fR
Group quota information
.TP
\fIfilesystem\fB/\&.quota_u\fR
User quota information
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsquota\fR(1)
.PP
\fBsamfsck\fR(8)
.PP
\fBpasswd\fR(5) - User ID information
.PP
\fBgroup\fR(5) - Group ID information
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
\fBNo user quota entry.\fR
User quotas are not active on the file system.
.TP
\fBNo group quota entry.\fR
Group quotas are not active on the file system.
.TP
\fBNo admin quota entry.\fR
Admin set quotas are not active on the file system.
