.\" $Revision: 1.27 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samset 8 "07 Jan 2009
.SH NAME
samset \- Change the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS environment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B samset 
.I [keyword
.I [parameter...]]
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B samset
is used to change or display variables that control Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS 
or Sun \%SAM-QFS operation.
Without any arguments, \fBsamset\fP displays current settings to
stdout.  If \fBsamset\fP is executed with a \fIkeyword\fP but with no
\fIparameter...\fP, then the current value for just that \fIkeyword\fP is
displayed to stdout.
.LP
The \fIkeywords\fP all have values assigned to them at startup.
These values come from the \fBdefaults.conf\fP file.  \fBsamset\fP allows
you to change \fIkeywords\fP while \%\fBsam-fsd\fR is running. 
Any changes made
remain effective only during the current instance of \%\fBsam-fsd\fR; values 
revert to the defaults in \fBdefaults.conf\fP at the next startup.
.LP
The following \fIkeywords\fP are supported:
.TP 10
.B attended yes
.TP
.B attended no
\fBattended\fP tells the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
library daemon if an operator is available to manually
mount media.  Regardless of the \fBattended\fP setting, requests for
media which are mounted in a drive, or present in a media changer, will
be satisfied as soon as possible.  \fBattended\fP affects the behavior
of Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS library daemon
when a medium is requested which is not currently present in
either a manually mounted drive, or in a library.  The usual action
taken by the library daemon when such a request occurs is to place it into the
preview display (see \fBsamu\fP (8)), and await manual
intervention (but see \fBstale_time\fP, below).  However, if either
\fBattended\fP is set to \fBno\fP, or the medium is marked
"unavailable" in the historian catalog, then the request will not go
into the preview display, and will fail with an ESRCH error.  If other
archive copies are available, they will be tried.  If no further copies
are available, ENXIO will be returned to the requester.
.TP
.B exported_media +u \fIeq...\fP
.TP
.B exported_media -u \fIeq...\fP
This option controls the flagging of media exported (see
.BR export (8))
from the listed libraries as unavailable (\fB+u\fP)
or available (\fB-u\fP) in the historian's catalog.  See
\fBattended\fP, above, for the effect of this flag.  The setting of the
flag for a given medium may be changed after export using \fBchmed\fP.
.TP
.B idle_unload
This is the time (in seconds)
that a media changer controlled device may be idle before the media
in that device is unloaded.  A value of zero will disable this feature.
.TP
.B labels \fIlabel-option\fP
This option applies only to barcode-reader equipped tape libraries.

The media daemon can obtain the tape label from the upper-cased 
characters of the
tape's barcode.  \fIlabel-option\fP may be: \fBbarcodes\fP, to use the
first six characters of the barcode as label; \fBbarcodes_low\fP, to
use the trailing six characters; or \fBread\fP, to disable barcode
processing and to read the magnetic label from the tape.

When \fBlabels\fP is set to \fBbarcodes\fP or \fBbarcodes_low\fP, any tape
robotically mounted for a write operation that is write enabled,
unlabeled, has never been mounted before, and has a readable barcode
will have a magnetic label written before the write is started.
.TP
.B stale_time \fIminutes\fP
Sets the amount of time (in minutes) that a request for media will wait
in the preview table before being canceled with an ETIME.  The file
system will react to an ETIME error in the same way as an ESRCH error
(see \fBattended\fP, above).
.TP
.B timeout \fIseconds\fP
Sets the time (in seconds) that will be allowed to elapse between I/O
requests for direct access to removable media (see
.BR request (1)).
If a process fails to issue the next I/O to the device within this
time, the device will be closed and, on the next I/O, the process will
receive an ETIME error.  A value of 0 implies no timeout will occur.
.TP
.B debug
debug manipulates the debug/trace flags within Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
or Sun \%SAM-QFS
environments to produce
expanded logging.  Unless otherwise specified, the debug messages are
logged to the syslog facility at the LOG_DEBUG priority.
\fIparameter...\fP is a space separated list of flags.  To set a flag,
give its name.  To clear a flag, give its name prefixed with a '-'.
The flags are:
.RS 10
.TP 10
.B all
Turn on all debug flags (except trace_scsi and robot_delay).
.TP
.B none
Turn off all debug flags.
.TP
.B default
Set all debug flags to the default as defined by \fBdefaults.conf\fR.
.TP
.B logging
File system requests to the daemons and the daemons response to the
requests are logged to files.  These files are used only by Sun
Microsystems support.
.TP
.B debug
This is catch-all for messages that might be of interest but generally
do not show a problem. 
.TP
.B moves
Log move-media commands issued to media changers.
.TP
.B events
This should only be used by Sun Microsystems analysts to trace the flow of
events used by the media changer daemons.  These messages are coded and of
little use in the field.  These messages are logged to syslog at
LOG_NOTICE priority.
.TP
.B timing
This setting has been replaced by the
device log timing event
.B devlog \fIeq [ event ...]\fR.
This is described in more detail under the
.B devlog
keyword.
.TP
.B od_range
For optical disk media, log the range of sectors allowed for writing.
.TP
.B labeling
Log the VSN, blocksize (for tape media only), and label date when a label
is read from a medium following the media's being mounted.  These messages are 
logged to syslog at LOG_INFO priority.
.TP
.B canceled
Log when the stage process detects a canceled stage request.
.TP
.B disp_scsi
Display the current SCSI cdb being executed by a device.  This
information is appended to any existing message.  If the length of the
existing message and the cdb would overflow the message area, the cdb
is not displayed.  The message area for a device can be viewed with
samu (see
.BR samu (8))
in the "s" or "r" displays.
.TP
.B messages
This is used by Sun Microsystems analysts to trace the flow of messages used by
the media changer daemons.  These messages are coded and of little use
to customers.  These messages are logged to syslog at LOG_NOTICE
priority.
.TP
.B migkit
Log events connected with the Sun Sam Migration Toolkit.
.TP
.B mounts
Log media mount requests.
.TP
.B opens
Log open and close of removable media devices.
.TP
.B trace_scsi
This option may only be set by the super user through the samset
command.  It causes all scsi commands issued through the user_scsi
interface to be written to a file named /tmp/sam_scsi_trace_\fIxx\fP
(where \fIxx\fP is the equipment number of either the media changer to
which this device belongs or the device itself if it does not belong to
a media changer.)  The trace file is opened with O_APPEND and O_CREAT
on the next I/O to each device after this flag is set.  It is closed
when the option is cleared and the next I/O to that device occurs.  Sun
Microsystems does not recommend running with this option for long periods.  The
format of the trace information is:
.nf

  struct {
    int    eq;      /* equipment number */
    int    what;    /* 0 - issue, 1 - response */
    time_t now;     /* unix time */
    int    fd;      /* the fd the ioctl was issued on */
    char   cdb[12]; /* the cdb */
    char   sense[20]; /* returned sense(valid if what=1) */
  }cdb_trace;

.fi
Sun Microsystems does not recommend setting this option indiscriminately, as
large output files are quickly produced.
.TP
.B stageall
This should be used only by Sun Microsystems analysts to trace stageall
processing.
.RE
.TP
.B devlog \fIeq [ event ...]\fP
devlog manipulates the device log event flags for device
.IR eq .
.I eq
is either an equipment number or "all";  if "all", then the flags are
set or listed for all devices.
These flags control which events get written to the device log files.
.I [ event ...]
is a space separated list of event names.  To set an event flag,
give its name.  To clear a flag, give its name prefixed with a '-'.
The events are:
.RS 10
.TP 10
.B all
Turn on all events.
.TP
.B none
Turn off all events.
.TP
.B default
Set the event flags to the default which are: err, retry, syserr, and date.
.TP
.B detail
events which may be used to track the progress of operations.
.TP
.B err
Error messages.
.TP
.B label
Labeling operations.
.TP
.B mig
Migration toolkit messages.
.TP
.B msg
Thread/process communication.
.TP
.B retry
Device operation retries.
.TP
.B syserr
System library errors.
.TP
.B time
Time device operations.
.TP
.B module
Include module name and source line in messages.
.TP
.B event
Include the event name in the message.
.TP
.B date
Include the date in the message.
.RE
.TP
.B tapealert \fIeq [on|off|default]\fP
tapealert allows the user to enable or disable support for device implemented
TapeAlert.
.RS 10
.TP 10
.I eq
is either an equipment number or "all";  if "all", then the flags are
set or listed for all devices.
.TP
.B on 
Enable TapeAlert if the device supports it.
.TP
.B off 
Disable requesting TapeAlert information from the device.
.TP
.B default
Return TapeAlert to the factory setting.
.RE
.TP
.B sef \fIeq [on|off|default] interval\fP
sef allows the user to enable or disable support for tape drive implemented
Log Sense delivered via sysevents.
.RS 10
.TP 10
.B eq
is either an equipment number or "all";  if "all", then the flags are
set or listed for all devices.
.TP
.B on 
Enable requesting tape drive Log Sense sysevents if the drive supports it.
.TP
.B off 
Disable requesting tape drive Log Sense sysevents.
.TP
.B default
Return tape drive Log Sense sysevents to the factory setting.
.TP
.B interval
Tape drive Log Sense polling interval in seconds.  A value of 300 is a
polling interval once every five minutes.  A string value of "once"
specifies one time just before media unload and is the default.  A value of 3600 is a
polling interval once every hour.  The smallest polling interval is five minutes.
.RE
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR request (1),
.BR chmed (8),
.BR export (8),
.BR samu (8),
.BR defaults.conf (5),
.BR mcf (5),
.BR tapealert (8),
.BR sefsysevent (5).
.SH NOTES
A complete description of SEF sysevents is in the \fISun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
Storage and Archive Management Guide\fR.
