'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.12 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH samsnoop 8 "03 Apr 2002"
.SH NAME
samsnoop \- Sun StorEdge QFS version of snoop
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsamsnoop\fR [\fI-aCDNPSvV\fR]  [\fI-t [r | a | d \fR] [ -c maxcount ]
     [ -d device  ]   [  -i filename  ]  [ -n filename ]
     [ -o filename ] [ -p first [ , last ] ]  [ -s snaplen ]
     [ -x offset [ , length ] ]  [ expression ]

.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBsamsnoop\fR is a version of \fBsnoop\fR(8) modified to capture
and display packets from the Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system.
The arguments are identical to those of \fBsnoop\fR(8).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsnoop\fR(8)
