'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.12 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
'\" !tbl | mmdoc
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH sendtrap 8 "18 Nov 2003"
.SH NAME
sendtrap \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) trap notification script 
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/sendtrap\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsendtrap\fR script publishes Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS SNMP trap events. 
It is executed by the \fBsyseventd\fR(8) daemon
when it encounters abnormal or
exceptional events including \fBtapealert\fR(8) events.
The SNMP version supported is SNMPv2c.
.PP
As released, \fBsendtrap\fR is a script that
sends a trap to the local host.
.PP
The \fBsyseventd\fR(8) daemon executes \fBsendtrap\fR as follows:
.TP 2
\(bu
It is invoked with 7 arguments if it is an archiver, stager, releaser,
recycler, or file system alert.
.TP
\(bu
It is invoked with 13 arguments if it is a \fBtapealert\fR(8) event.
.PP
The arguments used are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBArgument\fR
\fBMeaning\fR
.TP
1
A keyword identifying the category
of the alert (archiver, stager, releaser, recycler,
file system, \fBtapeAlert\fR(8), and so on).
.TP     
2
The subcategory or specific type of alert.
For example, keywords such as \fBCmdErr\fR to express
errors in the command files, \fBReadWarning\fR to express
tape drive read problems, and so on.)
.TP
3
The error type.  This identifies the severity
and syslog level of the event, as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 15
\fBError Type\fR
\fBValues\fR
.TP
\fB0\fR
\fBEmergency\fR
.TP
\fB1\fR
\fBAlert\fR
.TP
\fB2\fR
\fBCritical\fR
.TP
\fB3\fR
\fBError\fR
.TP
\fB4\fR
\fBWarning\fR
.RE
.TP 10
4
The message number as found in the message catalog.
For \fBtapealert\fR(8) events, this is a concatenation of
the Manual type (SSC2/SMC2) and the parameter code as found in
the ANSI SCSI-3 SSC2 and SMC2 Manuals at \fBwww.t10.org\fR.
.TP
5
The system identifier.  That is, the host name of the machine
upon which the event originated.
.TP
6
The text  of  the  translated  message string.
.TP
7
The date and time when the event occurred.
.TP
8
The vendor name of the device.
From SCSI INQUIRY.
Used only for \fBtapealert\fR(8) events.
.TP
9
The product identity of the device.
From SCSI INQUIRY.
Used only for \fBtapealert\fR(8) events.
.TP
10
The revision number of the device.
From SCSI INQUIRY.
Used only for \fBtapealert\fR(8) events.
.TP
11
The device name.  For example, \fB/dev/rmt/3cbn\fR.
Used only for \fBtapealert\fR(8) events.
.TP
12
The Volume Serial Name (VSN) of the tape.
Used only for \fBtapealert\fR(8) events.
.TP
13
The probable cause of the tape alert.
Used only for \fBtapealert\fR(8) events.
.PP     
.SS Configuring SNMP
To enable SNMP reporting, perform the following steps:
.TP 3
1.
Use \fBvi\fR(1) or another editor to open
file \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/defaults.conf\fR.
.TP
2.
Edit the file so that the \fBalerts=on\fR directive appears.
.TP
3.
Save and close the \fBdefaults.conf\fR file.
.TP
4.
Issue the \fBsamd\fR(8) \fBconfig\fR command to reconfigure
the \%\fBsam-fsd\fR(8) daemon.
.PP
.SS Modifying the Trap Destination Host
By default, traps are sent to port 161 of the localhost.
To change the port number or the hostname of the
trap destination, modify the \fBTRAP_DESTINATION="hostname:port"\fR
variable in this script.
.PP
This trap destination hostname must be declared in
NIS on \fB/etc/hosts\fR.
.PP
You can specify that traps be sent to multiple hosts.
Separate multiple hostname:port specifications with a space character.
For example:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
TRAP_DESTINATION="localhost:161 doodle:163 mgmt_station:1162"
.ft
.fi
.SS Modifying the SNMP Community String
To modify the SNMP community string, modify the value of the 
\fBCOMMUNITY\fR variable in this script.  By default, the
SNMP community string is set to \fBpublic\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\%\fBsam-fsd\fR(8),
\fBsamd\fR(8),
\fBsyseventd\fR(8),
\fBtapealert\fR(8).

