.\" $Revision: 1.20 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH ssi.sh 8 "12 Jan 2004"
.SH NAME
ssi.sh \- The configuration file for the StorageTek (STK) Client System Interface
CSI.
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBssi.sh\fP is a script that allows users to select values for several
dynamic environment variables used by the CSI.
The STK API code defines default values for these variables if they are
not defined dynamically. To allow the most flexibility in setting these
variables, a shell script 
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/ssi.sh\fR, is used by
the \fBsam-stkd\fR(8) daemon,
to start the \fBssi_so\fR. In general, most sites do not need to change the
variables within this script.
.SH CONFIGURATION
An example script can be found in
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/ssi.sh\fR.
This script, or a user created script, must be copied to 
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/ssi.sh\fR
.LP
It is assumed that the site has the server daemons (CSI and ACSLM)
configured and operating with the STK library.
.LP
The following environment variables are defined in the 
shell script supplied in
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/ssi.sh\fR:
.TP 8
.B CSI_TCP_RPCSERVICE
This variable is used to define whether the CSI operates as a TCP RPC
Server. This environmental variable must be set to TRUE for the firewall-secure
CSC. The firewall-secure ACSLS applications packets are all sent using 
the TCP network transport.

.TP
.B CSI_UDP_RPCSERVICE
This variable is used to define whether the CSI operates as a UDP RPC 
server. This environmental variable must be set to FALSE for the 
firewall-secure CSC. The firewall-secure ACSLS applications packets are 
all sent using the TCP network transport.

The CSI can operate as a TCP and a UDP server simultaneously.
.TP
.B CSI_CONNECT_AGETIME
This defines the value of the maximum age of pending requests in the CSI's
request queue. This variable is accessed as a "C" character array datatype,
expressed as an integer number of seconds. A value of 172800 indicates
two days. 

Messages older than this value are removed from the queue and the CSI
sends an entry to the Event Log when this happens.
.TP
.B CSI_RETRY_TIMEOUT
This defines the minimum amount of time, in seconds, that the CSI
will wait between attempts to establish a network connection.
.TP
.B CSI_RETRY_TRIES
This variable defines the number of attempts the CSI will make to
transmit a message. Pending messages are discarded if a connection
cannot be established within the defined number of tries. 

The CSI_RETRY_TIMEOUT and CSI_RETRY_TRIES together determine the minimum 
total time the CSI will attempt to send a message. 
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sam-robotsd (8).
.PP
.BR stk (8),
.BR ssi_so (8).
