.\" $Revision: 1.20 $ 
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems 
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH tplabel 8 "07 Jan 2009"
.SH NAME
tplabel \- Label tape 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tplabel
.BI \-vsn " vvvvvv"
.BR \- [ new " | " old
.IR vv... ]
.RB [ \-b
.IR " blksize" ]
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-erase ]
.IB eq

.B tplabel
.BI \-vsn " vvvvvv"
.BR \- [ new " | " old
.IR vv... ]
.RB [ \-b
.IR " blksize" ]
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-erase ]
.IB eq:slot 

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I tplabel
labels the tape volume specified by
.IR eq:slot.
.I eq 
is the equipment number.
If
.I eq
is a library,
.I slot
is the slot in the library containing the tape cartridge.

The following sequence of labels is written: 
 
.in +.5i
.nf
\f3VOL1\f1 
\f3HDR1\f1 
\f3HDR2\f1 
\f2tapemark\f1 
\f3EOF1\f1 
\f2tapemark\f1 
\f2tapemark\f1 
.fi
.in -.5i
.LP
The labels conform to ANSI X3.27-1987 File Structure and Labeling of
Magnetic Tapes for Information Interchange.
.LP
.BI \-vsn " vvvvvv"
specifies the volume serial name (VSN) of the tape being labeled.  The VSN must
be one to six characters in length.  All characters in the VSN must be
selected from the 26 upper-case letters, the 10 digits, and the
following special characters: !"%&'()*+,-./:;<=>?_.
.LP
If the media being labeled was previously labeled, the VSN must be specified
by
.B \-old
.IR vv... .
The "old" VSN is compared with the VSN on the media to assure that the
correct media is being relabeled.
.LP
If the media is not labeled (i.e., blank),
.B \-new
must be specified to prevent the previous label comparison from being made.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10   
.B \-V 
Verbose, lists label information written. 
.TP
.BI \-b " blksize"
specifies the blocksize for this tape.  The value 
must be one of 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, 1024 or 2048 
and represents the size of the tape block in
units of 1024.  This option overrides the default blocksize. 
.TP
.B \-erase
Erases the media completely before a label is written.  This is a security
feature that is normally not necessary.  Complete media erasure will take
a long time to perform since all data in the media is erased. 
.TP
.B \-w
Wait for the labeling operation to complete.  If an error occurs, it will be 
reported along with a completion code of 1.  All labeling errors are also 
logged.  Note:  Canceling a command that is waiting for completion will not 
cause the operation itself to be canceled.
.PP
