.\" $Revision: 1.16 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH unload 8 "18 Dec 1997"
.SH NAME
unload \- Unload media from a device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/unload
[
.B \-w
]
.I eq
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
Unload the media mounted on device \fIeq\fP.
The device specified by
\fIeq\fP must be a removable media device or a media changer.
.LP
If \fIeq\fP is a removable media device
controlled by a media changer, the medium will be
moved into storage. This command is used when a shutdown of a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS 
or Sun \%SAM-QFS file system is
required and a tape is still in a drive. This command is also used in
situations where the system administrator wishes to remove a tape from a
drive that is currently in the \fBunavail\fP state. 
.LP
If \fIeq\fP is a media changer, \fBunload\fP moves catalog entries from 
the media changer's catalog to the historian's catalog. The device state for
device \fIeq\fP is set to \fBoff\fP. When the device state for the media
changer is set to \fBon\fP and the media changer has bar codes, then the
catalog information for that media changer is retrieved from the historian. 
If the media changer does not have bar codes, an audit invoked by the
administrator will recover the historian information. This command is
useful for moving tapes in to and out of media changers which do not
have import/export capabilities, or sense capability for open door. By first
issuing the \fBunload\fP command, the system administrator can safely open
the door to the media changer, add or remove tapes, close the door, and
re-audit the media changer.

.LP
If
.B \-w
is specified, the command will wait for the operation to complete
before terminating.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B mcf
The configuration file for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS environment 
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR auditslot (8),
.BR historian (4),
.BR load (8),
.BR set_state (8),
.BR mcf (5),
.BR sam-robotsd (8)
