.\" $Revision: 1.14 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH alterfile 1 "18 Jan 1996"
.SH NAME
alterfile \- Alters file content
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBalterfile\fR
\%[\fB\-o\ \fIoffset\fR]
\%[\fB\-v\ \fIv_value\fR]
\%[\fB\-x\ \fIx_value\fR]
\fIfile\fB \&.\|\&.\|\&.\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamtp\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBalterfile\fR command changes one byte of a file.
More than one \fIfile\fR can be specified as input.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following arguments:
.TP 10
\fB\-o\ \fIoffset\fR
Alters the byte at this offset in the file.
If not specified, the offset is a random number within the file.
.TP
\fB\-v\ \fIv_value\fR
Changes the byte to \fIv_value\fR.
If not specified, the byte is set to \fB0\fR.
.TP
\fB\-x\ \fIx_value\fR
Changes the byte by exclusive \%OR-ing the byte with \fIx_value\fR.
.TP
\fIfile\fB \&.\|\&.\|\&.\fR
Names one or more files to be changed.

