.\" $Revision: 1.24 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH archive 1 "03 Feb 2006"
.SH NAME
archive \- Sets archive attributes and schedules files for immediate archiving
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBarchive\fR
[\fB\-C\fR]
[\fB\-I\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR]
[\fB\-W\fR]
[\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR]
\fIfilename\fR\ .\|.\|.\|
.PP
\fBarchive\fR
[\fB\-C\fR]
[\fB\-I\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR]
[\fB\-W\fR]
[\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR]
\fB\-r\fI dirname\fR .\|.\|.\|\|[\fIfilename .\|.\|.\|\fR]
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBarchive\fR command
sets archive attributes on files and directories.  It also
specifies archiving for one or more files. 
.PP
By default, a file is archived some time after its creation.
Your site's default archiving operation is configured by the
system administrator.  If neither the \fB\-d\fR nor the \fB\-n\fR
options are specified, files are marked to be archived immediately.
.PP
When archive attributes are set on a directory, all files or directories
subsequently created in that directory inherit those attributes.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following arguments:
.TP 10
\fB\-C\fR
Specifies concurrent archiving, which means that a file can be 
archived even if opened for write.
The archive time is regulated by the modification time.
By default, archiving is disallowed
while a file is opened for write.
Note that NFS files are not opened and
are concurrently archived by default.
.sp
Concurrent archiving is useful for databases, however caution
is advised because archiving can occur while the file is being
modified.  This can result in wasted media.
.TP 10
\fB\-I\fR
Support inconsistent archive copies. This means that an archive copy
can be created even if the file is modified while it is being copied
to the media. 
By default, the archive copy is disallowed if the file is inconsistent,
that is, if the file is modified while it was being copied to the media.
Note, the file cannot be staged if the copy is marked
inconsistent; however, after a samfsrestore, the inconsistent flag is removed
from the archive copy and the file can be staged.
.sp
Inconsistent archiving is useful for databases, however caution
is advised because it a file can be staged from an inconsistent copy
after the file is restored using samfsrestore.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Resets the archive attributes on a file to the default attributes.
When this option is specified,
attributes are first reset to the default,
and then all other attribute-setting options are processed.
The only action taken is that attributes are reset.
No archiving is performed.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Suppresses error messages. 
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
Disables archiving for a file.  This option specifies that a file
never be archived.
Only a superuser can set this attribute on a file.
When this option is specified, the only
action taken is that the attribute is set.
.sp
This option cannot be specified for a file that
has the checksum \fIuse\fP attribute set.  This attribute is set by using
the \fBssum\fR(1) command \fB\-u\fR option.
For more information on \fBssum\fR(1),
see the \fBssum\fR(1) man page.
.sp
If the archiver file system examination method has been set to
.BR scandirs ,
setting this option on a directory will prevent the archiver from examining
the directory, and all of its subdirectories.  This behavior should only be
used for directory trees that have all archive copies made for all files.
And, no changes should be made to any of the subdirectories or files.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR
Waits for a file to have at least 1 archive copy before completing.
This option cannot be specified on the command line in
conjunction with the \fB-W\fP, \fB\-d\fP, or \fB\-n\fP options.
Note that it may take a long time for a file to be archived.
.sp
Note that when archiving many files at once
(such as with \fBarchive -r -w .\fP)
the "-w" option causes each file to be completely archived before the archive
request for the next file is issued. In order to get the best performance 
in this situation, do the following:
.sp
  archive -r .
  archive -r -w .
.TP
\fB\-W\fR
Waits for a file to have all its required archive copies before completing.
This option cannot be specified on the command line in
conjunction with the \fB-w\fP, \fB\-d\fP, or \fB\-n\fP options.
Note that it may take a long time for a file to be archived.
.sp
Note that when archiving many files at once
(such as with \fBarchive -r -W .\fP)
the "-W" option causes each file to be completely archived before the archive
request for the next file is issued. In order to get the best performance 
in this situation, do the following:
.sp
  archive -r .
  archive -r -W .
.TP
\fB\-c\ \fIcopy_no\fR
Specify \fB1\fR, \fB2\fR, \fB3\fR, or \fB4\fR for \fIcopy_no\fR.
If one or more \fB\-c\fR options are
specified, only those archive copies (copies 1, 2, 3, or 4)
are affected.
The \fB\-c\fR option may only be used with the \fB\-w\fR and \fB\-r\fR
options.

If used without any other options (or just the \fB\-r\fR option), archive copy
\fIcopy_no\fR will be made immediately.

If used with the \fB\-w\fR option, (with or without the \fB\-r\fR option),
the command will wait for the archive copy \fIcopy_no\fR to be made.
.TP
\fB\-r \fIdirname\fR \ .\|.\|.\|
Recursively archives or sets attributes for files
contained in the specified \fIdirname\fR and its subdirectories.
More than one \fIdirname\fR can be specified.
.sp
If used in conjunction with other command line options,
the \fB\-r \fIdirname\fR option must be specified prior to
any individual files
listed (using the \fIfilename\fR argument),
but it must be specified after any other individual options.
.TP
\fIfilename\fR \ .\|.\|.\|
Specifies one or more file names.
If the \fB\-r \fIdirname\fR option is also specified,
individual \fIfilename\fR arguments must appear after
all \fIdirname\fR specifications.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following command resets all attributes to the default
settings on all files in the current directory and all files
in subdirectories beneath:
.PP
.ft CO
archive -d -r .
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBssum\fR(1),
\fBstage\fB(1),
\fBrelease\fB(1).
