.\" $Revision: 1.1 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH chproj 1 "07 Jun 2008"
.SH NAME
chproj \- change file project attribute
.na
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chproj
[
.B \-fhR
]
.RB project
.IR filename .\|.\|.\|

.B chproj
.B \-R
[
.B \-H | -L  | -P
]
.RB project
.IR filename .\|.\|.\|
.ad b
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chproj
sets the project attribute of files and directories.
The project can be specified as either the project name
or the numeric value from the project database /etc/project.
The owner of a file or directory can change the project
of a file or directory to any project of which the owner
could be a member. The superuser can change the project of
any file or directory to any project name or numeric value
from the project database /etc/project.
.LP
.na
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Force.
Do not report errors.
.TP
.B \-h
If the file is a symbolic link,
this option changes the project of the symbolic link.
Without this option,
the project of the file referenced by the symbolic link is changed.
.TP
.B \-H
If the file specified on the command line is a sym-
bolic  link  that references a directory,
this option changes  the  project  of  the  directory
referenced  by  the symbolic link and all the files
in the file hierarchy below it. If a symbolic  link
is  encountered  when  traversing the file hierarchy,
the project of the target file  is  changed,  but  no
recursion takes place.
.TP
.B \-L
If the file is a symbolic link, this option changes
the project of the file referenced by the symbolic
link. If the file specified on the command line, or
encountered during the traversal of the file
hierarchy, is a symbolic link that references a
directory, then this option changes the project
of the directory referenced by  the  symbolic  link
and all files in the file hierarchy below it.
.TP
.B \-P
If the file specified on the command line or
encountered during the traversal of a file hierarchy
is a symbolic link, this option changes the
project of the symbolic link. This option does not
follow the symbolic link to any other part of the
file hierarchy.
.LP
Specifying more than one of the  mutually-exclusive  options
-H,  -L,  or  -P is not considered an error. The last option
specified determines the behavior of chproj.
.TP
.B \-R
Recursive.
chproj descends through the directory and any subdirectories,
setting the specified project as it proceeds.
When a symbolic link is encountered,
the project of the target file is changed
unless the -h  or -P option is specified. However
no recursion takes place unless the -H or -L
option is specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsls\fR(1),
\fBsfind\fR(1),
\fBproject\fB(4).
