.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH dvt 1 "16 Mar 2005"
.SH NAME
dvt \- sequentially write and read a file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dvt
.RB [ \-c " block_count" ]
.RB [ \-C ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-e " error_limit" ]
.RB [ \-g " stripe_group" ]
.RB [ \-o " rw|w|r" ]
.RB [ \-O " byte_offset" ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.RB [ \-P " a|f|o|0(zero)" ]
.RB [ \-q " queue_size" ]
.RB [ \-R " read_threads" ]
.RB [ \-s " block_size" ]
.RB [ \-v ]
.RB [ \-W " write_threads" ]
.IR filename
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamtp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dvt
writes to a disk file and then reads the disk file.
The time required for the transfer(s) is measured,
and the read and write transfer rates are computed.
The read optionally verifies the written data.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-c " block_count"
The number of blocks to be written/read.
.TP
.B \-C
Specifies that I/O should be buffered through the page cache.
.TP
.B \-d
Specifies direct I/O: I/O should not use the page cache.
.TP
.B \-e " error_limit"
Specifies the maximum number of data miscompares allowed to occur before
the test is stopped.
.TP
.B \-g " stripe_group"
Specifies the number of the striped group
where the file is to be preallocated.
Stripe_group is a number 0..127 corresponding to a set of
g\fBXXX\fR devices in the SAM-QFS master configuration file.
This option applies only to filesystems configured with
stripe groups.
.TP
.B \-i " stride"
Set the I/O offset stride to \fBstride\fR.
.TP
.B \-o " rw|w|r"
The option \fIrw\fR means write the file and then read the file.
This is the default.
The option \fIw\fR means write the file.
The option \fIr\fR means read an existing file written by dvt.
.TP
.B \-O " byte_offset"
Offset initial file I/O by \fBbyte_offset\fB bytes.
.TP
.B \-p
Specifies the file should be preallocated.
This option applies only to SAM-QFS filesystems.
.TP
.B \-P " a|f|o|0"
The data pattern.
\fIa\fR is an ascending pattern which uses the 64 bit byte offset
as the pattern.
\fIf\fR is an ascending pattern
which uses the 64 bit byte offset as the pattern, plus inserts 16
characters of the filename at 8K boundaries.
\fIo\fR writes all 1's.
\fI0\fR (the numeral zero) writes all 0's.
.TP
.B \-q " queue_size"
Specifies the number of the entries that will be outstanding in the
work queue.
The \fIqueue_size\fR should be larger than \fIread_threads\fR.
.TP
.B \-R " read_threads"
Specifies the number of the threads that will be outstanding for read.
If \fIread_threads\fR is less than write_threads, \fIwrite_threads\fR will
be used.
.TP
.B \-s " size"
The block size in bytes.
If the size has the suffix \fBk\fR,
the block size is in units of kilobytes.
The size must be at least 1064 bytes to hold the parameter block header.
.TP
.B \-v
Data will be verified on the read pass.
The times and transfer rates will include this comparison time.
.TP
.B \-W " write_threads"
Specifies the number of the threads that will be outstanding for write.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pdvt(1)
.PP
.BR sam_advise(3),
.BR sam_setfa(3)
.PP
.BR mcf(4)
