.\" $Revision: 1.6 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH pdvt 1 "16 Mar 2005"
.SH NAME
pdvt \- POSIX Device Verification Tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdvt
.RB [ \-b ]
.RB [ \-B ]
.RB [ \-c " block_count" ]
.RB [ \-C ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-D ]
.RB [ \-e " data_error_limit" ]
.RB [ \-E " io_error_limit" ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-g " stripe_group" ]
.RB [ \-G " sync_file" ]
.RB [ \-h ]
.RB [ \-i " stride[k|m|g]" ]
.RB [ \-k " offset[k|m|g|t]" ]
.RB [ \-l " loops" ]
.RB [ \-m " buffer[k|m|g|t]" ]
.RB [ \-o " rw|wr|r|w" ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.RB [ \-P " a|o|0|r" ]
.RB [ \-q " queue_size" ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-R " read_threads" ]
.RB [ \-s " block_size[k|m]" ]
.RB [ \-S " file_size[k|m|g|t]" ]
.RB [ \-T ]
.RB [ \-u ]
.RB [ \-v " log_mask" ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-W " write_threads" ]
.RB [ \-z " seconds" ]
.IR "filename"
.IR "[ filename_out ]"
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The POSIX Device Verification Test ("PDVT") uses POSIX threads, or pthreads,
to test RAID device and file system I/O performance.
.PP
PDVT uses the concept of thread pools.
PDVT (the boss thread) creates a specified number of worker threads.
These worker threads survive for the duration of the program.
The PDVT boss thread creates I/O requests and puts
these requests on a work queue.
Worker threads remove I/O requests from the work queue and process them.
When a worker thread completes an I/O request,
it removes another one from the work queue if the queue is not empty.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-b
Perform backwards I/O.
.TP
.B \-B
Print I/O buffer information.
.TP
.B \-c " block_count"
The number of blocks to be written/read.
.TP
.B \-C
Specifies that I/O use the page cache.
.TP
.B \-d
Specifies direct I/O: I/O should not use the page cache.
.TP
.B \-D
Live dangerously and allow PDVT to write to slices that start at cylinder 0.
.TP
.B \-e " data_error_limit"
Specifies the maximum number of data miscompares that can occur before
the test is stopped.
.TP
.B \-E " io_error_limit"
Specifies the maximum number of I/O errors that can occur before
the test is stopped.
.TP
.B \-f
Set read process to follow an active writer.
.TP
.B \-g " stripe_group"
Specifies the number of the striped group
where the file is to be preallocated.
Stripe_group is a number 0..n where n
matches the gXXX devices configured in the SAM-QFS master
configuration file.
This option is only processed if \fI-p\fR is specified and it only
applies to SAM-QFS filesystems with configured stripe groups.
.TP
.B \-G sync_file
Threads will wait to perform I/O until sync_file exists.
Once test is complete the sync_file will be removed.
.TP
.B \-h
Print usage information.
.TP
.B \-i " stride[k|m|g]"
Number of bytes to stride
.TP
.B \-k offset[k|m|g|t]
Byte offset to start writing or reading from.
.TP
.B \-l " loops"
Number of times to loop before closing the file.
This option is useful for testing cache performance.
.TP
.B \-m "bufsize[k|m|g|t]"
Buffer size for random data pattern.
Pattern is based on file name and
can therefore regenerate the data if using the same file name.
Used in combination with \fIP r\fR option.
.TP
.B \-o " rw|wr|r|w"
Operation options:
.RS
.TP
rw - Read and write a file at the same time
.TP
wr - Write then read a file
.TP
r  - Read a file
.TP
w  - Write a file
.RE
.TP
.B \-p
Specifies the file should be preallocated.
Striping is also permitted if striped groups have been configured
as part of the filesystem.
This option only applies to SAM-QFS filesystems.
.TP
.B \-P " a|o|0|r"
The data pattern:
.RS
.TP
a - ascending pattern based on file offset
.TP
o - ones pattern
.TP
0 - zeros pattern
.TP
r - random pattern (requires -m option)
.RE
.TP
.B \-q " queue_size"
Specifies the number of the entries that will be outstanding in the
work queue.
The \fIqueue_size\fR should be larger than \fIread_threads\fR.
.TP
.B \-r
Perform random I/O
.TP
.B \-R " read_threads"
Specifies the number of the threads that will be outstanding for read.
If \fIread_threads\fR is less than write_threads, \fIwrite_threads\fR will
be used.
.TP
.B \-s " block_size[k|m]"
Size of blocks to be written/read.
.TP
.B \-S " file_size[k|m|g|t]"
Size of file to be written/read.
File size and block count are mutually exclusive.
.TP
.B \-T
Start timing at memory allocation instead of I/O start.
.TP
.B \-u
Unlink file when finished.
.TP
.B \-v "log_mask"
Set logging mask to print info, errors, results and/or debugging information.
Interpreted in octal by default, and has a default value of 03
(print test results and error messages).
.RS
.TP
001 - Print test results (on by default)
.TP
002 - Print error messages (on by default)
.TP
004 - Print debugging information during test
.TP
010 - Print lots of debugging information during test
.TP
020 - Print read and/or write return values
.RE
.TP
.B \-V
Data will be verified on the read pass.
The times will include this comparison time.
.TP
.B \-W " write_threads"
Specifies the number of the threads that will be outstanding for write.
.TP
.B \-z " seconds"
Used in combination with \fIf\fR option to specify number of seconds
to sleep before retrying a read request.
Default is 50000000 nanoseconds.
.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
Example 1: Write a file using 4 write threads and 8 queued requests
.PP
pdvt -o w -W 4 -q 8 -s 16m -S 4g /path/file.dat
.PP
Example 2: Write a file with a random buffer for data verification
.PP
pdvt -P r -m 4g -o w -W 4 -q 8 -s 16m -S 4g /path/file.dat
.PP
Example 3: Reading previous file with data verification
.PP
pdvt -P r -m 4g -V -o r -R 4 -q 8 -s 16m -S 4g /path/file.dat
.SH NOTES
.LP
The output of PDVT will vary based on the log level selected.
Test results and errors will be displayed by default,
but setting the log level to something like
7 will print the test results as well as the test configuration.
.PP
Output for results and information are comma separated values that can be
imported into a spreadsheet.
.PP
Results:
operation,block size(KB),fsize(KB),write threads,read threads,queue size,
wall time,user time,system time,throughput(MB/sec)
.PP
Using the log level 10 will result in a significant amount of output showing what
PDVT is doing.
Additionally, log level 4 will print out each buffer as it is
compared with a data verification read.
.PP
The random data feature uses the file name provided on the command line to
produce a seed that is fed to the srand48(3C) function call.
In order to verify a file once it is written,
the file name must be the same as given on the write command.
.PP
Performance of a verification read should not be taken into consideration as the
throughput represents the time not only to read a file, but also to verify each
buffer.
The verification process can add many seconds to a read.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR dvt(1)
.PP
.BR sam_advise(3),
.BR sam_setfa(3)
.PP
.BR mcf(4)
