.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH release 1 "1 Oct 2004"
.SH NAME
release \- Releases disk space and sets release attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrelease\fR
[\fB\-a\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR]
[\fB\-s\ \fIpartial_size\fR]
[\fB\-V\fR]
\fIfilename\fR \.\|.\|.\|
.PP
\fBrelease\fR
[\fB\-a\fR]
[\fB\-d\fR]
[\fB\-f\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR]
[\fB\-s\ \fIpartial_size\fR]
[\fB\-V\fR]
.if n \.br
\%\fB\-r\ \fIdirname\fR\ \.\|.\|.\|\|
[\fIfilename\fR \.\|.\|.\|]
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBrelease\fR command
sets release attributes for a file and releases the disk space
associated with
one or more files. 
At least one archive image must exist for each file before its disk
space is released.  By default, the
releaser daemon automatically drops disk space when the file system's
high water mark is reached.
.PP
Files that are symbolic links are silently ignored.
.PP
If the \fB\-a\fR, \fB\-d\fR, \fB\-n\fR, \fB\-p\fR, or \fB\-s\fR
options are specified, only the attribute is set;
the disk space is not released, however if the partial attribute is
reset, all blocks are released for an offline regular file.
.PP
When release attributes are set on a directory, files and directories
subsequently created in that directory inherit those attributes.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following arguments:
.TP 10
.B \-a
Sets the attribute that specifies that a file's disk space
be released when at least one archive copy of the file exists.
This option cannot be specified on the command line in conjunction with
the \fB\-n\fR option.
.TP
.B \-d
Resets the release attributes on the file to the default attributes.
When this option is specified, attributes are first
reset to the default, and then all other attribute-setting options
are processed.
.sp
If the \fIpartial\fR attribute is reset, all
blocks are released for an offline regular file. If the partial blocks
are to be retained, specify the \fB\-p\fR or \fB\-s\fR option with
the \fB\-d\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Suppresses error messages. 
.TP
\fB\-n\fR
Specifies that the disk space for this file never be released.
Only a superuser can set this attribute on a file.
This option cannot be specified on the command line in conjunction
with the \fB\-a\fR option.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR
Sets the partial release attribute on the file
so that when the file's disk
space is released, the first portion of that disk space is retained
on the disk.
.sp
By default, the minimum size of the portion retained on disk is
controlled by the \fB\-o\ partial=\fIn\fBk\fR option on the
\fBmount_samfs\fR(1M) command.  This amount
can be adjusted by using the \fB\-s\fR option on the \fBrelease\fR command.
.sp
NOTE: Even through only a portion of the file is retained on disk,
the amount of disk space consumed is equal to one DAU. So, for
example, if the partial size is set to 16K and the DAU size is 256K,
even though only 16K of data remains after a partial release, the actual
disk space used is 256K.
.sp
If this option is specified for an offline file,
the partial blocks are not on the disk, and the entire file is
be staged if accessed.  You can use the \fBstage\fR(1)
command's \fB\-p\fR option to stage the partial blocks to the disk.
.sp
This option cannot be specified under the following circumstances:
.RS 10
.TP 2
\(bu
This option cannot be specified for a file that has
either the checksum-generate or checksum-use attributes set.
These attributes are set by using the \fBssum\fR(1)
command's \fB\-g\fR or \fB\-u\fR options, respectively.
.TP
\(bu
The \fBstage\fR(1) command's \fB\-n\fR option
enables the never-stage attribute.
.sp
For more information on the \fBstage\fR(1) command,
see the \fBstage\fR(1) man page.
.RE
.TP 10
\fB\-s\ \fIpartial_size\fR
Specifies the number of kilobytes to be retained on disk when a file
with the partial-release attribute is released.
When the file's disk space is released, the first \fIpartial_size\fR
kilobytes of that disk space are retained.
.sp
By default, the minimum \fIpartial_size\fR is 8 kilobytes,
and the maximum \fIpartial_size\fR is 16 kilobytes or whatever the
\fB\-o\ maxpartial=\fImaxpartial\fR
setting is for this file system as specified on the \fBmount\fR(1M)
command.  For more information on the \fBmount\fR(1M) command,
see the \fBmount_samfs\fR(1M) man page.
.sp
This option cannot be specified under the following circumstances:
.RS 10
.TP 2
\(bu
This option cannot be specified for a file that has
either the checksum-generate or checksum-use attributes set.
These attributes are set by using the \fBssum\fR(1)
command's \fB\-g\fR or \fB\-u\fR options, respectively.
.TP
\(bu
The \fBstage\fR(1) command's \fB\-n\fR option
enables the never-stage attribute.
.RE
.TP 10
\fB\-r\fR
Recursively releases disk space or sets release attributes for files
contained in the specified \fIdirname\fR and its subdirectories.
More than one \fIdirname\fR can be specified.
.sp
Symbolic links that are encountered when this option is in effect are 
not traversed.
.sp
If used in conjunction with other command line options,
the \fB\-r\ \fIdirname\fR
option must be specified prior to any individual files listed (using
the \fIfilename\fR argument), but it must be specified after any other
individual options.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR
Enables a detailed, verbose display.
A message is displayed for each file for which release is attempted.
.TP
\fIfilename\fR
Specifies one or more file names.  If the \fB\-r\ \fIdirname\fR option
is also specified, \fIfilename\fR arguments must appear after all
\fIdirname\fR specifications.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBarchive\fR(1),
\fBssum\fR(1),
\fBstage\fR(1).
.PP
\fBmount_samfs\fR(1M).
