.\" $Revision: 1.18 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH request 1 "7 Aug 2001"
.SH NAME
request \- Creates a \%removable-media file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrequest\fR
[\fB\-f\fI\ file_id\fR]
[\fB\-g\fI\ group\fR]
[\fB\-i\fI\ information\fR]
\fB\-m\fI\ media\fR
[\fB\-N\fR] 
[\fB\-n\fI\ version\fR]
[\fB\-o\fI\ owner\fR]
[\fB\-p\fI\ position1\fR[\fB/\fIposition2\fB/\fIposition3\fB/\fR .\|.\|.\|]]
[\fB\-s\fI\ size\fR]
[\fB\-v\fI\ vsn1\fR[\fB/\fIvsn2\fB/\fIvsn3\fB/\fR .\|.\|.\|]]
\fIfile\fR
.PP
\fBrequest\fR
[\fB\-f\fI\ file_id\fR]
[\fB\-g\fI\ group\fR]
[\fB\-i\fI\ information\fR]
[\fB\-l\fI\ vsnfile\fR]
\fB\-m\fI\ media\fR
[\fB\-N\fR] 
[\fB\-n\fI\ version\fR]
[\fB\-o\fI\ owner\fR]
[\fB\-s\fI\ size\fR]
\fIfile\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIrequest\fR command creates a \%removable-media file,
which is a file that resides only on one or more removable media
cartridges.  Such a file does not reside in online magnetic disk storage.
Removable media files allow you to read data from tape
or \%magneto-optical cartridges directly to memory.
Creating removable media files allows you to use
cartridges in
an automated library without having them under the control of
the storage and archive manager (SAM).  In addition, removable
media files
can also be used for disaster recovery purposes.
.PP
A removable media file can be written to more than one volume
if the file is large.  This creates a \fIvolume overflow\fR file.
.PP
The \fB\-m\fI\ media\fR option to this command specifies the
media type and is a required option.
.PP
The Volume Serial Name (VSN) for the removable media file
specifies the cartridges to which the removable media file will
be written.  The VSNs can be specified in one of two ways:
.TP 3
\(bu
By specifying the \fB\-v\fI\ vsn\fR option.
If you specify the VSN using this option, you can also use
the \fB\-p\fR option to supply
the position of the removable media file on the media.  You must be
superuser to specify the \fB\-p\fR option.
.TP
\(bu
By specifying the \fB\-l\fI\ vsnfile\fR option.
.PP
Note that you cannot specify both the \fB\-v\fR option and
the \fB\-l\fR option on the same \fBrequest\fR command line.
.PP
When an application writes to a removable media file by using the
\fBopen\fR(2) system call with the \fIoflag\fR argument set
to \fBO_WRONLY\fR, \fBO_RDWR\fR, \fBO_CREAT\fR, or \fBO_TRUNC\fR,
the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS software is
updated to reflect the data's position on the cartridge.  Subsequent
read access using the \fBopen\fR(2) call with \fIoflag\fR
set to \fBO_RDONLY\fR results
in a read of the data written during creation.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts several options.  In the following list, the
options are grouped according to function.
.SH General Options
The following general options can be used for any type
of \%removable-media cartridge:
.TP 10
\fB\-l\fI\ vsnfile\fR
Specifies the name of the file that contains the list of VSNs.
.sp
Within a \fIvsnfile\fR, VSNs must be specified one per line.
Each line must contain a VSN name.
The \fIvsn\fR cannot be more than 6 characters in
length for a tape or 31 characters in length for \%magneto-optical media.
.sp
You can also specify the position within the \fIvsnfile\fR.
If specifying the position,
begin each line with the VSN name, followed by a space character,
and followed by a decimal or hexadecimal number that indicates
the position on the medium.  If specifying in hexadecimal, precede
the position indicator by \fBOx\fR characters.
.sp
Each VSN in the \fIvsnfile\fR must reside in a local automated library.
.sp
This option cannot be specified in conjunction with the \fB\-v\fR option.
.TP 10
\fB\-m\fI\ media\fR
Specifies the media type.  For \fImedia\fR, specify a media type
as described on the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.  This is a required
option.
.TP
\fB\-p\fI\ position1\fR[\fB/\fIposition2\fB/\fIposition3\fB/\fR .\|.\|.\|]
A number that specifies the position of the removable media file
on the cartridge.
This option must be specified in conjunction with the \fB\-v\fR option.
The number of \fIposition\fRs specified must match the number
of \fIvsn\fRs specified on the \fB\-v\fR option.
.sp
The \fIposition\fR can be
specified in decimal or hexadecimal.  To specify hexadecimal, precede
the position with \fB0x\fR.
If specified, the media is positioned to \fIposition\fR on each VSN.
The number of \fIposition\fRs specified must match the number of VSNs.
.sp
Note that
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS utilities usually
print the position of the file on the medium in hexadecimal.
You must be superuser to specify a \fIposition\fR.
.TP
\fB\-s\fI\ size\fR
Specifies the required size in bytes.
When \fIfile\fR is opened for write access,
sufficient space on the media must be available
before the first write is done.
.TP
\fB\-v\fI\ vsn1\fR[\fB/\fIvsn2\fB/\fIvsn3\fB/\fR .\|.\|.\|]
Specifies one or more VSNs to which the removable media
will be written.
The \fIvsn\fR cannot be more than 6 characters in
length for a tape or 31 characters in length for \%magneto-optical media.
.sp
If more than one VSN is specified,
separate them with slash characters (\fB/\fR).
.sp
If you want to specify the position on the media, use
the \fB\-p\fI position\fR argument in conjunction with this argument.
.sp
Each \fIvsn\fR specified must reside in a local automated library.
.sp
This option cannot be specified in conjunction with the \fB\-l\fR option.
.TP
\fIfile\fR
Specifies the name of the file to be written to removable media.
This can be a full path name.
The file must reside in a
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS file system.
After the \%removable-media file is created, subsequent access to
the file results in access to the specified \%removable-media cartridge.
.SH Tape Media Options
For tape files, each write to the media results in one tape block.
Each read of the media returns either a tape block or the
first \%buffer-size bytes of the tape block, whichever is smaller.
The buffer size must be equal
to or larger than the tape block in order to read the entire block.
.PP
The following option can be used only if the removable media
file is being written to tape media:
.TP
\fB\-N\fR
Specifies that the media is a foreign tape.
That is, the tape was not written in a
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS environment.
The tape must be barcoded, write protected,
opened for read access only, and positioned to 0.
.SH Magneto-Optical Media Options
The following options can be used only if the removable media
file is being written to \%magneto-optical media:
.TP 10
\fB\-f\fI\ file_id\fR
Specifies the recorded file name of the file
to access (up to 31 characters).
The default is the file name portion (basename) of the path specified
by \fIfile\fR.  For requests in which \fIfile\fR is greater than
31 characters, no default exists, and the \fB\-f\fR argument is required.
.TP
\fB\-n\fI\ version\fR
Version number of the file.  If \fIversion\fR
is 0, the most current version is used for read access, and
a new version is created for write access.  The default value
is 0.  For write access, the \fIfile\fR is updated
with the new version number.
.TP
\fB\-o\fI\ owner\fR
Specifies the owner.  Can be up to 31 characters.
The default is the current user.
For \%magneto-optical disk files that are to be used to read
archive images, the owner specification must be \fB\-o\ sam_archive\fR.
.TP
\fB\-g\fI\ group\fR
Specifies the group identifier.  Can be up to 31 characters.
The default is the user's current group.
For \%magneto-optical disk files that are to be used to read
archive images, the group specification must be \fB\-g\ sam_archive\fR.
.TP
\fB\-i\fI\ information\fR
Specified a user information string.
The information string is written in the file's label at creation
time.  Can be up to 159 characters.
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1.
This example command is used to recover data from
a \%tape-resident archive file at position 286 hexadecimal
on DLT volume \fBYYY\fR:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
request -m lt -v YYY -p 0x286 /sam1/xxx
.fi
.ft
.PP
Example 2.  This example command shows how to specify multiple VSNs:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
request -m lt -v YYY/VVV/WWW -p 0x286/0x3f07/0x0x4 /sam1/xox
.fi
.ft
.PP
Example 3.  This example has the same effect as the command line
in Example 2, but it uses the \fB\-l\fR option:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
request -m lt -l vsns /sam1/xox
.ft
.fi
.PP
File \fBvsns\fR is as follows:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
YYY 0x286
VVV 0x3f07
WWW 0x0x4
.fi
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBbasename\fR(1).
.PP
\fBopen\fR(2).
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(4).
.SH NOTES
\%Removable-media files are not supported over NFS.

