.\" $Revision: 1.17 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH sdu 1 "8 Jul 2002"
.SH NAME
sdu \- Summarizes disk usage
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsdu\fR
\%[\fB\-a\fR]
\%[\fB\-b\fR]
\%[\fB\-c\fR]
\%[\fB\-D\fR]
\%[\fB\-h\fR]
\%[\fB\-\-help\fR]
\%[\fB\-k\fR]
\%[\fB\-l\fR]
\%[\fB\-L\fR]
\%[\fB\-m\fR]
\%[\fB\-s\fR]
\%[\fB\-S\fR]
\%[\fB\-\-version\fR]
\%[\fB\-x\fR]
\%[\fIfile\fR .\|.\|.\|\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This man page describes the GNU version of the \fBdu\fR(1) command
as enhanced by Sun Microsystems for the
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS file system.
The \fBsdu\fR command
displays the amount of disk space used by each \fIfile\fR
argument.  If \fIfile\fR is a directory, the command returns disk
space information for each subdirectory of \fIfile\fR.
If \fIfile\fR is a removable media file, the command returns 0
for the size of that file.
.PP
By default, the space is
returned in 1K blocks, but if the \fBPOSIXLY_CORRECT\fR environment
variable is set, \%512-byte blocks are reported.
The \fBsdu\fR command
displays actual disk blocks for online Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
files.  It also displays an estimate of disk
blocks (based on file size) for offline Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
files.
To get actual disk block usage for both online and offline
files, use the \fBdu\fR(1) command.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 10
\fB\-a\fR
Displays counts for all files, not just directories.
Equivalent to specifying \fB\-\-all\fR.
.TP
\fB\-b\fR
Displays sizes in bytes.
Equivalent to specifying \fB\-\-bytes\fR.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR
Writes a grand total of all of the arguments after all
arguments have been processed.  This can be used to determine
the disk usage of a directory with some files excluded.
Equivalent to specifying \fB\-\-total\fR.
.TP
\fB\-D\fR
Dereferences symbolic links that are command line arguments.  Does not
affect other symbolic links.  This is helpful for determining the disk
usage of directories like \fB/usr/tmp\fR if they are symbolic links.
Equivalent to specifying \%\fB\-\-dereference-args\fR.
.TP
\fB\-h
Displays sizes in \%human-readable format.  For example, 1K, 234M, 2G.
Equivalent to specifying \%\fB\-\-human-readable\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-help\fR
Writes a usage message to standard output and exits successfully.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR
Displays sizes in kilobytes.
This overrides the environment variable \fBPOSIXLY_CORRECT\fR.
Equivalent to specifying \fB\-\-kilobytes\fR.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR
Counts the size of all files, even if they have appeared already in
another hard link.
Equivalent to specifying \fB\-\-count-links\fR.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR
Dereferences symbolic links.  That is, the command shows the
disk space used by the file or directory that the link points
to instead of the space used by the link.
Equivalent to specifying \fB\-\-dereference\fR.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR
Uses 1024-kilobyte blocks, not 512, regardless of
the \fBPOSIXLY_CORRECT\fR environment variable setting.
Equivalent to specifying \fB\-\-megabytes\fR.
.TP
\fB\-s\fR
Displays only a total for each argument.
Equivalent to specifying \fB\-\-summarize\fR.
.TP
\fB\-S\fR
Counts the size of each directory separately, not including the sizes
of subdirectories.
Equivalent to specifying \%\fB\-\-separate-dirs\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Displays version information on standard output then exits successfully.
.TP
\fB\-x\fR
Skips directories that are on different file systems from the one that
the \fIfile\fR being processed is on.
Equivalent to specifying \%\fB\-\-one-file-system\fR.
.TP
\fIfile\fR
Specifies the file or the path to the file being analyzed.
The size is written.  If no \fIfile\fR is specified,
the current directory is used.  If more than one \fIfile\fR
is specified, separate each with a space character.


