.\" $Revision: 1.20 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License")
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH segment 1 "29 Apr 2004"
.SH NAME
segment \- Sets segment file attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsegment\fR
\%\fR[\fB\-d\fR]
\%\fR[\fB\-f\fR]
\%\fR[\fB\-s\ \fIstage_ahead\fR]
\%\fR[\fB\-V\fR]
\%\fB\-l\ \fIsegment_size\fR
\fIfilename\fR .\|.\|.\|
.PP
\fBsegment\fR
\%\fR[\fB\-d\fR]
\%\fR[\fB\-f\fR]
\%\fR[\fB\-s\ \fIstage_ahead\fR]
\%\fR[\fB\-V\fR]
\%\fB\-l\ \fIsegment_size\fR
\%\fB\-r\ \fIdirname\fR .\|.\|.\|\| [ \fIfilename\fR .\|.\|.\|]
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsegment\fR command sets the segment attribute for an existing file.
At a minimum, the \%\fB\-l\ \fIsegment_size\fR and the \fIfilename\fR
must be specified.
If a file is segmented,
it is archived to and staged from its volumes
in \fIsegment_size\fP chunks.
.PP
When file attributes are set on a directory, files and directories
subsequently created in that directory inherit those attributes.
.PP
The \fBsegment\fR command is not supported in
Sun StorEdge SAM-QFS shared file systems.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 10
.B \-d
Returns the segment attributes on the file to the default.
When \fB\-d\fP is specified, attributes are first
reset to the default, then other attribute-setting options
are processed.  It not possible to reset a file that has
already been segmented.
.TP
.B \-f
Suppresses errors.
.TP
\%\fB\-l\ \fIsegment_size\fR
Specifies the segment size.  The \fIsegment_size\fR must be an integer
and must be greater than or equal to one megabyte.
The integer specified must be followed by \fBk\fR (for
kilobytes), \fBm\fR (for megabytes), or \fBg\fR (for gigabytes).
For example:
.sp
\fB\-l 1024k\fR
.sp
This segment size specifies the size at which the file is segmented
on the file system for archiving and staging.
A file is segmented when it reaches the specified segment size.
If a file has already been segmented, the segment size cannot be changed.
A pre-existing file cannot be segmented if it exceeds the
specified segment size.
.sp
.TP
.BI \-s " stage_ahead"
Specifies the number of segments to stage ahead when staging a
segmented file.
This means when an offline segment is read, in
addition to staging the current segment, the
next
.I stage_ahead
segments are also staged. The default value of
.I stage_ahead
is zero, which means there is no stage read ahead. The maximum
.I stage_ahead
value is 255.
.TP
.B \-r
Recursively sets the \fBsegment\fR file attribute for all files
contained in the specified \fIdirname\fP or its subdirectories.
.TP
.B \-V
Enables the verbose display.  Displays a message for each file on
which attributes are set.
.SH NOTES
The file system disables quotas at mount time if any of the
following files in the file system's root directory are segmented:
.TP 3
\(bu
\&\fB.quota_a\fR
.TP
\(bu
\&\fB.quota_g\fR
.TP
\(bu
\&\fB.quota_u\fR
.PP
The \%\fB\-drives\fR directive in the \fBarchiver.cmd\fR file
specifies the number of drives to use for archiving and staging.
.PP
The mmap function cannot be carried out on a segmented file.
Because of this, a segmented file cannot be an executable binary.
.PP
Segmentation of files is not supported on a Sun StorEdge SAM-QFS
shared file system.
.PP
A segmented
file is automatically striped across several volumes when it is
archived if the following conditions are in effect:
.TP 3
\(bu
More than one drive is available.
.TP
\(bu
The \fB\-drives\fR directive is in effect.
.PP
A segmented
file is automatically striped from several volumes when it is
staged if the following conditions are in effect:
.TP 3
\(bu
The file was archived as striped.
.TP
\(bu
More than one drive is available.
.TP
\(bu
The \fB\-drives\fR directive is in effect.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stage (1),
.BR archive (1),
.BR archiver.cmd (4)
