.\" $Revision: 1.28 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sfind 1 "29 Apr 2008"
.na
.nh
.SH NAME
sfind \- Searches for files in a directory hierarchy
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsfind\fR
\%[\fIpath\fR\ .\|.\|.\|]
[\fIexpression\fR]
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsfind\fR(1) command contains Sun Microsystems extensions to the
GNU \fBfind\fR(1) command.  The extensions support the features
of files that reside in Sun StorEdge QFS and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
file systems.
.PP
The \fBsfind\fR command
searches the directory tree rooted at each \fIpath\fR by
evaluating the specified \fIexpression\fR from left to right,
according to the
rules of precedence.
The search continues until the outcome is
known (the left hand side is false for \fBand\fR operations, true for
\fBor\fR), at which point the \fBsfind\fR command moves on to
the next file name.
For more information on the rules
of precedence, see the OPERATORS
section of this man page.
.PP
The Sun Microsystems extensions to this
command include the addition of several
tests that reference characteristics
specific to files that reside in
a Sun StorEdge QFS or Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS file system.  These
tests are as follows:
.PP
\fB\-any_copy_d\fR,
\fB\-any_copy_r\fR,
\fB\-any_copy_v\fR,
\fB\-archdone\fR,
\fB\-archive_d\fR,
\fB\-archive_n\fR,
\fB\-archived\fR,
\fB\-archpos \fIn\fR,
\fB\-archpos1 \fIn\fR,
\fB\-archpos2 \fIn\fR,
\fB\-archpos3 \fIn\fR,
\fB\-archpos4 \fIn\fR,
\fB\-copies\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-copy\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-copy_d\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-copy_r\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-copy_v\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-damaged\fR,
\fB\-is_setfa_g\fR,
\fB\-is_setfa_s\fR,
\fB\-mt\ \fImedia_type\fR,
\fB\-mt1\ \fImedia_type\fR,
\fB\-mt2\ \fImedia_type\fR,
\fB\-mt3\ \fImedia_type\fR,
\fB\-mt4\ \fImedia_type\fR,
\fB\-offline\fR,
\fB\-online\fR,
\fB\-ovfl\fR,
\fB\-ovfl1\fR,
\fB\-ovfl2\fR,
\fB\-ovfl3\fR,
\fB\-ovfl4\fR,
\fB\-partial_on\fR,
\fB\-project\ \fIpname\fR,
\fB\-release_a\fR,
\fB\-release_d\fR,
\fB\-release_n\fR,
\fB\-release_p\fR,
\fB\-rmin\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-rtime\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-sections\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-sections1\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-sections2\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-sections3\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-sections4\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-segment\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-segment_a\fR,
\fB\-segment_i\fR,
\fB\-segment_s\fR,
\fB\-segmented\fR,
\fB\-segments\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-setfa_g\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-setfa_s\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-ssum_g\fR,
\fB\-ssum_u\fR,
\fB\-ssum_v\fR,
\fB\-stage_a\fR,
\fB\-stage_d\fR,
\fB\-stage_n\fR,
\fB\-verify\fR,
\fB\-vsn\ \fIpattern\fR,
\fB\-vsn1\ \fIpattern\fR,
\fB\-vsn2\ \fIpattern\fR,
\fB\-vsn3\ \fIpattern\fR,
\fB\-vsn4\ \fIpattern\fR,
\fB\-xmin\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-xtime\ \fIn\fR.
.PP
For a comprehensive lists of tests, see
the TESTS section of this
man page.
.PP
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 10
\fIpath\fR
Specifies the path to the directory to be searched.
If no \fIpath\fR is specified, the \fBsfind\fR command searches the
current directory.
If a \fIpath\fR is specified, the \fIpath\fR must appear on the command
line to the left of the \fIexpression\fR argument.
If specifying more than one \fIpath\fR,
separate each with a space character.
.TP
\fIexpression\fR
An expression composed from arguments described in the
OPTIONS, TESTS,
ACTIONS, and OPERATORS
sections of this man page.
If no \fIexpression\fR is specified, \fB\-print\fR is used.
.sp
The \fIexpression\fR must begin with one of the following characters:
.sp
.nf
\- A dash (\fB\-\fR)
\- An opening parenthesis (\fB(\fR)
\- A closing parenthesis (\fB)\fR)
\- A comma (\fB,\fR)
\- An exclamation point (\fB!\fR)
.fi
.PP
.RS 10
Any arguments to the left of the preceding character list are
assumed to be paths to search.  Any arguments to the right
of the preceding character list are assumed to be part of
the \fIexpression\fR.
.sp
An \fIexpression\fR can be constructed from the following:
.TP 3
\(bu
\fIOptions\fR, which affect overall operation rather than the processing
of a specific file.  Options always return true.  For a list of
possible options, see the OPTIONS section.
.TP
\(bu
\fITests\fR, which return a true or false value.
For a list of possible tests, see the TESTS
section.
.TP
\(bu
\fIActions\fR, which have side effects.  Actions return a true or false value.
If \fIexpression\fR contains no actions other than \fB\-prune\fR,
the \fB\-print\fR action is performed on all files
for which the expression is true.
For a list of possible actions, see the ACTIONS
section.
.TP
\(bu
\fIOperators\fR, which separate options, tests, and actions.
For a list of possible operators, see the OPERATORS
section.
The \fB\-and\fR operator is assumed if no operator is specified.
.SS OPTIONS
An \fIexpression\fR can contain one or more \fIoptions\fR.
The \fIoptions\fR always return true.  The available \fIoptions\fR
are as follows:
.TP 10
\fIoption\fR
\fRAction\fR
.TP
\fB\-daystart\fR
Measures times for
\fB\-amin\fR,
\fB\-atime\fR,
\fB\-cmin\fR,
\fB\-ctime\fR,
\fB\-mmin,\fR
and
\fB\-mtime\fR
from the beginning of today rather than from 24 hours ago.
.TP
\fB\-depth\fR
Processes each directory's contents before the directory itself.
.TP
\fB\-follow\fR
Dereferences symbolic links.  Implies the \fB\-noleaf\fR
option.  For more information, see the \fB\-noleaf\fR information
that follows in this list.
.TP
\fB\-maxdepth \fIlevels\fR
Descends at most \fIlevels\fR
levels of
directories below the command line arguments.
The \fIlevels\fR argument muse be a nonnegative integer.
If you specify \fB\-maxdepth\ 0\fR, the \fItests\fR
and \fIactions\fR are applied to
the command line arguments only.
For more information, see the TESTS
and ACTIONS sections of
this man page.
.TP
\fB\-mindepth \fIlevels\fR
Prevents any tests or actions from being performed at
levels less than \fIlevels\fR.
The \fIlevels\fR argument must be a nonnegative integer.
If you specify \fB\-mindepth\ 1\fR, all files except
the command line arguments are processed.
For more information, see the TESTS
and ACTIONS sections of
this man page.
.TP
\fB\-noleaf\fR
Supresses optimization.
When specified, the command does not assume that directories
contain 2 fewer
subdirectories than their hard link count.  This option is needed when
searching file systems that do not follow the UNIX \%directory-link
convention.  Such file systems include \%CD-ROM
or \%MS-DOS file systems or AFS volume mount
points.
.sp
Each directory on a typical UNIX file system has at least 2
hard links:  its name and its \&\fB.\fR entry.  If subdirectories
are present, each of those has a \&\fB..\fR entry linked to that
directory.  When the \fBsfind\fR command
examines a directory, after it has statted 2 fewer subdirectories
than the directory's link count, it assumes that the rest of the entries
in the directory are not directories.  That is, the rest of the entries
are \fIleaf\fR files in the directory
tree.  If only the files' names need to be examined, there is no need
to stat them; this gives a significant increase in search speed.
.TP
\fB\-test_segments\fR
For a segmented file, applies \fBsfind\fR tests to each individual
data segment and to the index inode.  If a \fBsfind\fR test returns
true for a data segment or for a segmented file's index
inode, \fBsfind\fR writes the file path, a slash, and the segment number.
The number zero is written for the index inode's segment number.
.sp
The following options always automatically enable
the \fB\-test_segments\fR option: \fB\-segment\ \fIn\fR,
\fB\-segment_i\fR, \fB\-segment_s\fR.
.sp
If this option is not specified, and the tests are applied to a segmented
file, then the tests are applied at the file\-level, and they are
aggregated over all data segments.
.sp
This option has no effect on test results when applied to unsegmented files.
.sp
For more information, see the TESTS section of this man page.
.TP
\fB\-version\fR
Writes the \fBsfind\fR command's version number to standard error.
.TP
\fB\-ractive\fR
If the WORM feature is active writes the path of files which are retained and
the retention period has not expired.
.TP
\fB\-rover\fR
If the WORM feature is active writes the path of files whose retention period
has expired.
.TP
\fB\-rafter <date>\fR
If the WORM feature is active writes the path of files whose retention period
ends after the given date.  The date is specified with traditional format
CCYYMMDDHHMM. CC is the century, YY is the year, MM is the month, DD is
the day, HH is the hour, and MM is minute(s).
.TP
\fB\-rremain <time>\fR
If the WORM feature is active writes the path of files with retention periods
with at least <time> left.  The time is a duration specified as a combination
of years, days, hours, and minutes given as a string "MyNdOhPm" where M, N,
O, P are arbitrary non-negative integers. y, d, h, m represent the number
of years, days, hours, and minute(s) for the search.
.TP
\fB\-rlonger <time>\fR
If the WORM feature is active writes the path of files with retention periods
longer than <time>.  The time is a duration specified as a combination of years,
days, hours, and minutes given as a string "MyNdOhPm" where M, N, O, P are
arbitrary non-negative integers. y, d, h, m represent the  number of years,
days, hours, and minute(s) for the search.
.TP
\fB\-rpermanent\fR
If the WORM feature is active writes the path of files whose retention period
is permanent.
.TP
\fB\-xdev\fR
Prevents the command from descending directories on other file systems.
.SS TESTS
An \fIexpression\fR can contain one or more \fItests\fR.
Many \fItests\fR accept a numeric argument, \fIn\fR.  The numeric
arguments can be specified with a preceding plus sign (\fB+\fR) or
minus sign (\fB-\fR), as follows:
.TP 10
\fIn\fB Format\fR
\fBMeaning\fR
.TP
\fB+\fIn\fR
Greater than \fIn\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\fIn\fR
Less than \fIn\fR.
.TP
\ \fIn\fR
Exactly \fIn\fR.
.PP
The available tests are as follows:
.TP 10
\fItest\fR
\fBCondition\fR
.TP
\fB\-amin \fIn\fR
File was last accessed \fIn\fR minutes ago.
.TP
\fB\-anewer \fIfile\fR
File was last accessed more recently than \fIfile\fR was modified.
The \fB\-anewer\fR test affects the \fB\-follow\fR option only
if the \fB\-follow\fR option comes before (is to the left of)
the \fB\-anewer\fR test on the command line.
.TP
\fB\-any_copy_d\fR
File has an archive copy that is damaged.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in
effect, this test evaluates to true if the segmented file's index inode has
an archive copy that is damaged or if at least one of the file's data
segments has an archive copy that is damaged.
.TP
\fB\-any_copy_r\fR
File has an archive copy marked for rearchiving by
the \fBrearch\fR(1M) command or by the recycler.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in effect,
this test evaluates to true if the segmented file's index inode has an
archive copy marked for rearchiving or if at least one of the file's
data segments has an archive copy marked for rearchiving.
.TP
\fB\-any_copy_v\fR
File has an archive copy that is verified.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in
effect, this test evaluates to true if the segmented file's index inode has
an archive copy that is verified or if all of the file's data
segments have an archive copy that is verified.
.TP
\fB\-archdone\fR
File has completed archive processing.
The archiver has no further work to do on the file at this time.
Note that this does not mean that the file has been archived.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in
effect, this test evaluates to true for a segmented file if and
only if all of the file's data segments have completed archive
processing.  This test does not evaluate a segmented file's index
inode to see if it has completed archive processing.
.TP
\fB\-archive_d\fR
File has had the equivalent of \fBarchive\ \-d\fR run against it,
so the archiver handles it according to system defaults.
For more information
on the \%\fB\-d\fR option to the \fBarchive\fR(1) command,
see the \fBarchive\fR(1) man page.
.TP
\fB\-archive_n\fR
File has had the equivalent of \fBarchive\ \-n\fR run against it,
so it will never be archived.
For more information
on the \%\fB\-n\fR option to the \fBarchive\fR(1) command,
see the \fBarchive\fR(1) man page.
.TP
\fB\-archived\fR
File is archived.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in
effect, this test evaluates to true if all of the file's data
segments are archived.  This test does not evaluate a segmented file's
index inode to see if it has been archived.  The following \fBsfind\fR command
finds files
on \fB/sam6\fR whose index inode has been archived:
.RS 10
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfind /sam6 -archived -segment_i -print
.ft
.fi
.PP
The preceeding \fBsfind\fR command identifies only index inodes that have
been archived; it does not yield any information regarding whether a segmented
file's data segments have been archived.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-archpos \fIn\fR
File has at least one archive copy at position \fIn\fR.
Note that \fIn\fR may be preceded by + or -, and specified
in decimal, or hexadecimal if preceded by "0x".  This position
is the position \fBprior to the decimal point\fR in sls output
or the archiver log.  If \fIn\fR is a path starting with "d" or "f"
it is interpreted as a relative path to a disk archive file.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in
effect, this test evaluates to true if the file's index inode has at
least one archive copy at position \fIn\fR or if at least one of the
file's data segments has at least one archive copy at position \fIn\fR.
.TP
\fB\-archpos1 \fIn\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-archpos2 \fIn\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-archpos3 \fIn\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-archpos4 \fIn\fR
File has the indicated copy number (1-4) at position \fIn\fR.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in
effect, this test evaluates to true if the file's index inode has the
indicated archive copy at position \fIn\fR or if at least one of the
file's data segments has the indicated archive copy at position \fIn\fR.
.PD
.TP
\fB\-atime \fIn\fR
File was last accessed \fIn\fR*24 hours ago.
.TP
\fB\-cmin \fIn\fR
File status was last changed \fIn\fR minutes ago.
.TP
\fB\-cnewer \fIfile\fR
File status was last changed more recently than \fIfile\fR
was modified.  The \fB\-cnewer\fR test is affected by
the \fB\-follow\fR option only if the \fB\-follow\fR option comes
before (is to the left of) the \fB\-cnewer\fR test on the
command line.
.TP
\fB\-copies \fIn\fR
File has \fIn\fR archive copies.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in effect,
this test evaluates to true if each of the file's data
segments have \fIn\fR archive copies.  This test does not evaluate a segmented
file's index inode to see if it has \fIn\fR archive copies.
.TP
\fB\-copy \fIn\fR
File has an archive copy number \fIn\fR.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in effect,
this test evaluates to true if each of the file's data
segments have an archive copy number \fIn\fR.  This test does not evaluate a
segmented file's index inode to see if it has an archive copy number \fIn\fR.
.TP
\fB\-copy_d \fIn\fR
File has an archive copy number \fIn\fR that is damaged.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in effect,
this test evaluates to true if the segmented file's index inode has
an archive copy number \fIn\fR that is damaged or if at least one of the
file's data segments has an archive copy number \fIn\fR that is damaged.
.TP
\fB\-copy_r \fIn\fR
File has an archive copy number \fIn\fR marked for rearchiving
by the \fBrearch\fR(1M) command or by the recycler.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in effect,
this test evaluates to true if the segmented file's index inode has
an archive copy number \fIn\fR marked for rearchiving or if at least one of the
file's data segments has an archive copy number \fIn\fR marked for rearchiving.
.TP
\fB\-copy_v \fIn\fR
File has an archive copy number \fIn\fR that is verified.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in effect,
this test evaluates to true if the segmented file's index inode has
an archive copy number \fIn\fR that is verified or if all of the
file's data segments have an archive copy number \fIn\fR that is verified.
.TP
\fB\-ctime \fIn\fR
File status was last changed \fIn\fR*24 hours ago.
.TP
\fB\-damaged\fR
File is damaged.
.TP
\fB\-empty\fR
File is empty and is either a regular file or a directory.
.TP
\fB\-false\fR
Always false.
.TP
\fB\-fstype \fItype\fR
File is on a file system of type \fItype\fR.
Possible file system types differ among the different UNIX versions
and include, but are not limited to, the
following:  \fBufs\fR, \fB4.2\fR, \fB4.3\fR, \fBnfs\fR, \fBtmp\fR,
\fBmfs\fR, \fBS51K\fR, and \fBS52K\fR.
You can use the \fB\-printf\fR action with its \fB%F\fR argument
to obtain the types of your file systems.
For more information on \fB\-printf\fR, see
the ACTIONS section.
.TP
\fB\-gid \fIn\fR
File has \fIn\fR for its numeric group ID.
.TP
\fB\-group \fIgname\fR
File belongs to group \fIgname\fR.  A numeric group ID is allowed.
.TP
\fB\-ilname \fIpattern\fR
Like \fB\-lname\fR, but the match is case insensitive.
.TP
\fB\-iname \fIpattern\fR
Like \fB\-name\fR, but the match is case insensitive.
For example, a \fIpattern\fR of \fBfo*\fR and \fBF??\fR both
match file names \fBFoo\fR, \fBFOO\fR, \fBfoo\fR, \fBfOo\fR, and so on.
.TP
\fB\-inum \fIn\fR
File has inode number \fIn\fR.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in effect,
this test evaluates to true if any of the file's data segments
or its index inode have inode number \fIn\fR.
.TP
\fB\-ipath \fIpattern\fR
Like \fB\-path\fR, but the match is case insensitive.
.TP
\fB\-iregex \fIpattern\fR
Like \fB\-regex\fR, but the match is case insensitive.
.TP
\fB\-is_setfa_g\fR
File has had its stripe group number set using the \fBsetfa\ \-g\fR
command.  For more information on the \fBsetfa\ \-g\fR command,
see the \fBsetfa(1)\fR man page.
.TP
\fB\-is_setfa_s\fR
File has had its stripe width set using the \fBsetfa\ \-s\fR
command.  For more information on the \fBsetfa\ \-s\fR command,
see the \fBsetfa(1)\fR man page.
.TP
\fB\-links \fIn\fR
File has \fIn\fR links.
.TP
\fB\-lname \fIpattern\fR
File is a symbolic link whose contents match shell pattern
\fIpattern\fR.
The metacharacters do not treat the slash character (\fB/\fR) or the
period character (\&\fB.\fR) specially.
.TP
\fB\-mmin \fIn\fR
File's data was last modified \fIn\fR minutes ago.
.TP
\fB\-mt \fImedia_type\fR
File has an archive copy on the specified \fImedia_type\fR on any copy.
.TP
\fB\-mt1 \fImedia_type\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-mt2 \fImedia_type\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-mt3 \fImedia_type\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-mt4 \fImedia_type\fR
File has an archive copy on the specified \%\fImedia_type\fR for
the indicated copy number (\%1-4).
.PD
.TP
\fB\-mtime \fIn\fR
File's data was last modified \fIn\fR*24 hours ago.
.TP
\fB\-name \fIpattern\fR
Base of file name (the path with the leading directories removed)
matches shell pattern \fIpattern\fR.  The metacharacters
(\fB*\fR, \fB?\fR, and \fB[ ]\fR) do not match a \&\fB.\fR at the
start of the base name.  To ignore
a directory and the files under it, use the \fB\-prune\fR action.
For more information, see the example in the \fB\-path\fR test
in this list.
.TP
\fB\-newer \fIfile\fR
File was modified more recently than \fIfile\fR.
The \fB\-follow\fR option
affects the \fB\-newer\fR test
only if the \fB\-follow\fR option comes before (is to the left of)
the \fB\-newer\fR test on the command line.
.TP
\fB\-nouser\fR
No user corresponds to the file's numeric user ID.
.TP
\fB\-nogroup\fR
No group corresponds to the file's numeric group ID.
.TP
\fB\-offline\fR
File is offline.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in effect,
this test evaluates to true if the file's index inode is offline
or if all of the file's data segments are offline.
.TP
\fB\-online\fR
File is online.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in effect,
this test evaluates to true if the file's index inode is online
and all of the file's data segments are online.
.TP
\fB\-ovfl\fR
File has at least one archive copy that has sections on more than one VSN;
this condition is known as volume overflow.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in effect,
this test evaluates to true if the file's index inode has at least
one archive copy that has sections on more than one VSN or if
at least one of the file's data segments has an archive copy that has
sections on more than one VSN.
.TP
\fB\-ovfl1\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-ovfl2\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-ovfl3\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-ovfl4\fR
File has an archive copy that has sections on more than one VSN for the
indicated copy number (1-4).
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in
effect, this test evaluates to true if the file's index inode has an
archive copy that has sections on more than one VSN for the indicated
copy number or if at least one of the file's data segments has an archive
copy that has sections on more than one VSN for the indicated copy number.
.PD
.TP
\fB\-partial_on\fR
File has the \%partial-release attribute set and
the partially retained portion of the file is online.
.TP
\fB\-path \fIpattern\fR
File name matches shell pattern \fIpattern\fR.
The metacharacters do not treat the slash (\fB/\fR) or
the period (\fB\&.\fR) specially.  For example,
the following line writes an entry for a directory
called \fB\&./src/misc\fR (if one exists):
.RS 10
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfind . \-path './sr*sc'
.ft
.fi
.PP
To ignore a whole directory tree, use the \fB\-prune\fR action
rather than
checking every file in the tree.  For example, the following
command skips the
directory \fBsrc/emacs\fR for all files and directories under it and
it writes the names of the other files found:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfind . \-path './src/emacs' -prune -o -print
.ft
.fi
.PP
.RE
.TP 10
\fB\-perm \fImode\fR
File's permission bits are exactly \fImode\fR (octal or symbolic).
Symbolic modes use mode 0 as a point of departure.
.TP
\fB\-perm \-\fImode\fR
All of the permission bits \fImode\fR are set for the file.
.TP
\fB\-perm +\fImode\fR
Any of the permission bits \fImode\fR are set for the file.
.TP
\fB\-project \fIpname\fR
File belongs to project \fIpname\fR.  A numeric project ID is allowed.
.TP
\fB\-regex \fIpattern\fR
File name matches regular expression \fIpattern\fR.
This is a match on the whole path, not a search.
For example, to match a file named \&\fB./fubar3\fR,
you can use the regular expression \&\fB.*bar.\fR or \&\fB.*b.*3\fR,
but not \&\fBb.*r3\fR.
.TP
\fB\-release_d\fR
File has had the equivalent of having the \fBrelease\fR(1) command
with its \fB\-d\fR option run against it,
and thus has the default release handling.
.TP
\fB\-release_a\fR
File has had the equivalent of having the \fBrelease\fR(1) command
with its \fB\-a\fR option run against it,
and thus will be released immediately after being archived.
.TP
\fB\-release_n\fR
File has had the equivalent of having the \fBrelease\fR(1) command
with its \fB\-n\fR option run against it,
and thus will never be released.
.TP
\fB\-release_p\fR
File has had the equivalent of having the \fBrelease\fR(1) command
with its \fB\-p\fR option run against it,
and thus will be partially released.
.TP
\fB\-rmin \fIn\fR
File's residence was changed \fIn\fR minutes ago.
.TP
\fB\-rtime \fIn\fR
File's residence was changed \fIn\fR*24 hours ago.
.TP
\fB\-sections\ \fIn\fR
File has at least one archive copy that has sections on \fIn\fR VSNs.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in
effect, this test evaluates to true if the file's index inode has at least
one archive copy that has sections on \fIn\fR VSNs or if at least one of
the file's data segments has an archive copy number \fIn\fR that has
sections on \fIn\fR VSNs.
.TP
\fB\-sections1\ \fIn\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-sections2\ \fIn\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-sections3\ \fIn\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-sections4\ \fIn\fR
File has an archive copy that has sections on \fIn\fR VSNs for the
indicated copy number (1-4).
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not in
effect, this test evaluates to true if the file's index inode has at
least one archive copy that has sections on \fIn\fR VSNs for the
indicated copy number or if at least one of the file's data segments has an
archive copy number \fIn\fR that has sections on \fIn\fR VSNs.
.PD
.TP
\fB\-segment\ \fIn\fR
Data segment or index inode has segment number \fIn\fR.
.sp
Index inodes always have segment number 0.  Data segments are numbered
sequentially starting with 1.
.sp
This test always causes \fBsfind\fR to run as if the \fB\-test_segments\fR
option were in effect.
.TP
\fB\-segment_a\fR
File or directory has had the segment attribute set.
.sp
If the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is also in effect, then this test
evaluates to true for index inodes and data segments in addition to files and
directories that have had the \fBsegment\fR attribute set.
.TP
\fB\-segment_i\fR
Item is an index inode.
.sp
This test always causes \fBsfind\fR to run as if the
\fB\-test_segments\fR option were in effect.
.TP
\fB\-segment_s\fR
Item is a data segment.
.sp
This test always causes \fBsfind\fR to run as if the
\fB\-test_segments\fR option were in effect.
.TP
\fB\-segmented\fR
Item is a segmented file.
.sp
If used in conjunction with the \fB\-test_segments\fR option, this test
evaluates to true for index inodes and data segments.
.TP
\fB\-segments\ \fIn\fR
Segmented file has \fIn\fR data segments.
.TP
\fB\-setfa_g\fR \fIn\fR
File's stripe group was set to \fIn\fR using
the command \fBsetfa\ \-g\ \fIn\fR.
For more information on the \fBsetfa\ \-g\fR command,
see the \fBsetfa\fR(1) man page.
.TP
\fB\-setfa_s\fR \fIn\fR
File's stripe width was set to \fIn\fR using
the command \fBsetfa\ \-s\ \fIn\fR.
For more information on the \fBsetfa\ \-s\fR command,
see the \fBsetfa\fR(1) man page.
.TP
\fB\-size \fIn\fR[\fIunit\fR]
File uses \fIn\fR \%512-byte blocks.
To specify another size, use the \fIunit\fR suffix.
The possible \fIunit\fR
specifiers are as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 10
\fIunit\fR
\fBMeaning\fR
.TP
\fBb\fR or \fBc\fR
Bytes.
.TP
\fBk\fR
Kilobytes.
.TP
\fBm\fR
Megabytes.
.TP
\fBg\fR
Gigabytes.
.TP
\fBt\fR
Terabytes.
.PP
For example, the following specifications are equivalent:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
-size 3
-size 1536b
.fi
.ft
.PP
The \fB\-size\fR test does not count indirect blocks,
but it does count blocks in sparse files that are not actually allocated.
.RE
.TP 10
\fB\-ssum_g\fR
File has had the equivalent of the \fBssum\fR(1) command with
its \fB\-g\fR option run against it, and thus will
have a checksum value generated and stored for it when it is archived.
.TP
\fB\-ssum_u\fR
File has had the equivalent of the \fBssum\fR(1) command with
its \fB\-u\fR option run against it, and thus will
have a checksum value verified (used) when it is staged.
.TP
\fB\-ssum_v\fR
File has a valid checksum value.
.sp
For a segmented file, if the \fB\-test_segments\fR option is not
in effect, this test evaluates to true if all of the file's data
segments have valid checksum values.  This test does not evaluate a
segmented file's index inode to see if it has a valid checksum value.
.TP
\fB\-stage_a\fR
File has had the equivalent of the \fBstage\fR(1) command with
its \fB\-a\fR option run against it, and thus will
have associative staging behavior.
.TP
\fB\-stage_d\fR
File has had the equivalent of the \fBstage\fR(1) command with
its \fB\-d\fR option run against it, and thus will
have the default staging behavior.
.TP
\fB\-stage_n\fR
File has had the equivalent of the \fBstage\fR(1) command with
its \fB\-n\fR option run against it, and thus will
not be staged into disk cache for read references.
.TP
\fB\-true\fR
Always true.
.TP
\fB\-type \fIc\fR
File is of type \fIc\fR.  For \fIc\fR, specify one of the following:
.RS 10
.TP 10
\fBType \fIc\fR
\fBMeaning\fR
.TP
\fBb\fR
Block (buffered) special.
.TP
\fBc\fR
Character (unbuffered) special.
.TP
\fBd\fR
Directory.
.TP
\fBp\fR
Named pipe (FIFO).
.TP
\fBf\fR
Regular file.
.TP
\fBl\fR
Symbolic link.
.TP
\fBs\fR
Socket.
.TP
\fBR\fR
Removable media file.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-uid \fIn\fR
File's numeric user ID is \fIn\fR.
.TP
\fB\-used \fIn\fR
File was last accessed \fIn\fR days after its status was last changed.
.TP
\fB\-user \fIuname\fR
File is owned by user \fIuname\fR (numeric user ID allowed).
.TP
\fB\-verify\fR
File has the verify attribute set.
See the \fBssum\fR(1) man page for more information on the \fBverify\fR
attribute.
.TP
\fB\-vsn \fIpattern\fR
File has an archive copy on a volume with VSN matching shell pattern
\fIpattern\fR for any copy.
.TP
\fB\-vsn1 \fIpattern\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-vsn2 \fIpattern\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-vsn3 \fIpattern\fR
.PD 0
.TP
\fB\-vsn4 \fIpattern\fR
File has an archive copy on a volume with VSN matching shell pattern
\fIpattern\fR for the indicated copy (1-4).
.PD
.TP
\fB\-xmin \fIn\fR
File's data was created \fIn\fR minutes ago.
.TP
\fB\-xtime \fIn\fR
File's data was created \fIn\fR*24 hours ago.
.TP
\fB\-xtype \fIc\fR
The same as \fB\-type\fR unless the file is a symbolic link.
For symbolic links, the \fB\-xtype\fR test checks the type of
the file that the \fB\-type\fR test does not check.
For \fIc\fR values, see the \fB\-type\fR test in this list.
.sp
For symbolic links, the following occurs:
.RS 10
.TP 3
\(bu
If the \fB\-follow\fR option has not been specified,
the test returns true if the file is a link to a file of type \fIc\fR.
.TP
\(bu
If the \fB\-follow\fR option has been specified,
the test returns true if \fIc\fR is \fBl\fR.
.RE
.SS ACTIONS
An \fIexpression\fR can contain one or more \fIactions\fR.
The available \fIactions\fR are as follows:
.TP 10
\fIaction\fR
\fBResult\fR
.TP
\fB\-exec \fIcommand\fB ;\fR
Executes the specified \fIcommand\fR.
True if 0 status is returned.
All arguments to the right of the \fB\-exec\fR
keyword are assumed to be arguments to \fIcommand\fR
until an argument consisting of a semicolon (\fB;\fR) is encountered.
The string \fB{}\fR is replaced by the current
file name being processed everywhere it occurs in the arguments to the
command, not just in arguments where it is alone, as in some versions
of the \fBfind\fR(1) command.
Both of these constructions might need to be escaped with a
backslash character (\fB\e\fR) or quoted to protect them from expansion
by the shell.
.TP
\fB\-fprint \fIfile\fR
True.  Writes the full file name to file \fIfile\fR.
If \fIfile\fR does not exist when \fBsfind\fR is run, it is created.
If \fIfile\fR does exist, it is truncated.
The file names \fB/dev/stdout\fR and \fB/dev/stderr\fR are
handled specially; they refer to the standard
output and standard error output, respectively.
.TP
\fB\-fprint0 \fIfile\fR
True.  Similar to the \fB\-print0\fR action,
but it writes to \fIfile\fR like \fB\-fprint\fR.
.TP
\fB\-fprintf \fIfile\fR \fIformat\fR
True.  Similar to the \fB\-printf\fR action,
but it writes to \fIfile\fR, using \fIformat\fR,
like the \fB\-fprint\fR action.  For information on
possible \fIformat\fR option, see
the \fB\-printf\ \fIformat\fR action.
.TP
\fB\-ok \fIcommand\fB ;\fR
Executes the specified \fIcommand\fR, like the \fB\-exec\fR action,
but it asks the user first (on the standard input).
If the user response
does not start with \fBy\fR or \fBY\fR, \fIcommand\fR is not run, and
the return value is false.
.TP
\fB\-print\fR
True.  Writes the full file name, followed by a newline,
to standard output.
.TP
\fB\-print0\fR
True.  Writes the full file name, followed by a null character,
to standard output.  This allows file names that contain newlines to be
interpreted correctly by programs that process the \fBsfind\fR output.
.TP
\fB\-printf \fIformat\fR
True.  Writes \fIformat\fR to standard output, interpreting
both backslash (\fB\e\fR) escape and percent character (\fB%\fR)
directives.  Field widths and precisions can be
specified as with the \fBprintf\fR(3C) C library function.
Unlike the \fB\-print\fR action, the \fB\-printf\fR action
does not add a newline at the end of the string.
.sp
Two lists follow.  The escapes are listed first, and the
directives are listed after the escapes.
.PP
.RS 10
.TP 5
\fBEsc\fR
\fBResult\fR
.TP
\fB\ea\fR
Alarm bell.
.TP
\fB\eb\fR
Backspace.
.TP
\fB\ec\fR
Stops printing from this \fIformat\fR immediately.
.TP
\fB\ef\fR
Form feed.
.TP
\fB\en\fR
Newline.
.TP
\fB\er\fR
Carriage return.
.TP
\fB\et\fR
Horizontal tab.
.TP
\fB\ev\fR
Vertical tab.
.TP
\fB\e\e\fR
A literal backslash (\fB\e\fR).
.PP
A backslash character (\fB\e\fR) followed by any other
character is treated as an
ordinary character, so both are written.
.PP
The directives begin with a percent (\fB%\fR) character
followed by another character from the following list.  If
the \fB%\fR character is followed by a character that is not from this
list,
the directive is discarded, but the other character is printed.
The directives are as follows:
.TP 6
\fBDir\fR
\fBMeaning\fR
.TP
\fB%%\fR
A literal percent sign.
.TP
\fB%a\fR
File's last access time in the format returned by
the C \fBctime\fR(3C) function.
.TP
\fB%A\fIk\fR
File's last access time in the format specified
by \fIk\fR, which is either an ampersand (\fB@\fR)
or a directive for the C \fBstrftime\fR(3C) function.
The directives specify either the time or date.
The possible
values for \fIk\fR follow.  Some of them might not be
available on all systems, due to differences in the \fBstrftime\fR(3C)
function between systems.
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 3
\(bu
An ampersand (\fB@\fR).  The ampersand signifies
seconds elapsed since Jan. 1, 1970, 00:00 GMT.
.TP
\(bu
A time field.
The time fields are as follows:
.PP
.RS 3
.TP 5
\fIk\fR
\fBMeaning\fR
.TP
\fBH\fR
The hour in 00, \&.\|.\|.\|, 23 format.
.TP
\fBI\fR
The hour in 01, \&.\|.\|.\|, 12 format.
.TP
\fBk\fR
The hour in 0, \&.\|.\|.\|, 23 format.
.TP
\fBl\fR
The hour in 1, \&.\|.\|.\|, 12 format.
.TP
\fBM\fR
The minute in 00, \&.\|.\|.\|, 59 format.
.TP
\fBp\fR
Specifies whether the locale's time is AM or PM.
.TP
\fBr\fR
The time in a \%12-hour format.  This results in
a \fIhh\fB:\fImm\fB:\fIss\fR [\fBA\fR\ |\ \fBP\fR]\fBM\fR format.
.TP
\fBS\fR
The second in a 00, \&.\|.\|.\|, 61 format.
.TP
\fBT\fR
The time in a \%24-hour format.  This results in
a \fIhh\fB:\fImm\fB:\fIss\fR format.
.TP
\fBX\fR
The locale's time representation in \fIH\fB:\fIM\fB:\fIS\fR.
.TP
\fBZ\fR
The time zone (for example, \fBEDT\fR) or nothing (if no
time zone is determinable).
.RE
.RE
.PP
.RS 5
.TP 3
\(bu
A date field.
The date fields are as follows:
.RS 3
.TP 5
\fIk\fR
\fBMeaning\fR
.TP
\fBa\fR
The locale's abbreviated weekday name
in Sun, \&.\|.\|.\|, Sat format.
.TP
\fBA\fR
The locale's full weekday name, in Sunday, \&.\|.\|.\|, Saturday format.
This is of variable length.
.TP
\fBb\fR, \fBh\fR
The locale's abbreviated month name in Jan, \&.\|.\|.\|, Dec format.
.TP
\fBB\fR
The locale's \%full-month name in January, \&.\|.\|.\|, December format.
This is of variable length.
.TP
\fBc\fR
The locale's date and time in the following example format:
Sat Nov 04 12:02:33 EST 1989.
.TP
\fBd\fR
The day of month in 01, \&.\|.\|., 31 format.
.TP
\fBD\fR
The date in \fImm\fR/\fIdd\fR/\fIyy\fR format.
.TP
\fBj\fR
The day of year in 001, \&.\|.\|.\|, 366 format.
.TP
\fBm\fR
The month in 01, \&.\|.\|.\|, 12 format.
.TP
\fBU\fR
The number of the week in the year, with Sunday considered to
be the first day of week, in 00, \&.\|.\|.\|, 53 format.
.TP
\fBw\fR
The day of week in 0, \&.\|.\|.\|, 6 format.
.TP
\fBW\fR
The number of the week in the year, with Monday considered to
be the first day of week, in 00, \&.\|.\|.\|, 53 format.
.TP
\fBx\fR
The locale's date representation in \fImm\fR/\fIdd\fR/\fIyy\fR format.
.TP
\fBy\fR
The last two digits of year in 00, \&.\|.\|.\|, 99 format.
.TP
\fBY\fR
The year in the following example format:  2002.
.RE
.RE
.TP 6
\fBDir\fR
\fBMeaning\fR
.TP
\fB%b\fR
File's size in \%512-byte blocks (rounded up).
.TP
\fB%c\fR
File's last status change time in the format returned by
the C \fBctime\fR(3C) function.
.TP
\fB%C\fIk\fR
File's last status change time in the format specified by \fIk\fR,
which is the same as for the \fB%A\fIk\fR directive.
For more information,
see the \fB%A\fIk\fR directive previously in this list.
.TP
\fB%d\fR
File's depth in the directory tree.
A zero (\fR0\fR) means that the file is a command line argument.
.TP
\fB%f\fR
File's name with any leading directories removed.
.TP
\fB%F\fR
Type of file system the file is on.
This value can be used for the \fB\-fstype\fR test.
.TP
\fB%g\fR
File's group name.
This is the numeric group ID if the group has no name.
.TP
\fB%G\fR
File's numeric group ID.
.TP
\fB%h\fR
Leading directories of file's name.
.TP
\fB%H\fR
Command line argument under which file was found.
.TP
\fB%i\fR
File's inode number in decimal.
.TP
\fB%k\fR
File's size in 1K blocks rounded up.
.TP
\fB%K\fR
Segment number of the data segment or the index inode.
.sp
Index inodes always have segment number 0.  Data segments are numbered
sequentially starting with 1.
.sp
A dash (\fB\-\fR) is written if the item is not an index inode and not
a data segment.
.TP
\fB%l\fR
Object of symbolic link.
Empty string if file is not a symbolic link.
.TP
\fB%m\fR
File's permission bits in octal.
.TP
\fB%n\fR
Number of hard links to file.
.TP
\fB%p\fR
File's name.
.TP
\fB%P\fR
File's name with the name of the command line argument under which
it was found removed.
.TP
\fB%Q\fR
Number of data segments that comprise the segmented file.
.sp
A dash (\fB\-\fR) is written if the item is not a segmented file.
.TP
\fB%r\fR
File's stripe group number as it was set using the \fBsetfa\ \-g\fR command.
A dash (\fB\-\fR) is written if the file's stripe group number was not
set using \fBsetfa\ \-g\fR or if the file does not reside in a
Sun StorEdge QFS file
system.  For more information on the \fBsetfa\ \-g\fR command,
see the \fBsetfa\fR(1) man page.
.TP
\fB%s\fR
File's size in bytes.
.TP
\fB%t\fR
File's last modification time in the format returned by
the C \fBctime\fR(3C) function.
.TP
\fB%T\fIk\fR
File's last modification time in the format specified by \fIk\fR,
which is the same as for \fB%A\fIk\fR.
For more information,
see the \fB%A\fIk\fR directive previously in this list.
.TP
\fB%u\fR
File's user name, or numeric user ID if the user has no name.
.TP
\fB%U\fR
File's numeric user ID.
.TP
\fB%w\fR
File's stripe width as it was set using the \fBsetfa\ \-s\fR command.
A dash (\fB\-\fR) is written if the file's stripe width
was not set using \fBsetfa\ \-s\fR or if the file
does not reside in a Sun StorEdge QFS or Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
file system.  For more information
on the \fBsetfa\ \-s\fR command, see the \fBsetfa(1)\fR man page.
.TP
\fB%Z\fR
Segment length setting in megabytes.  A dash (\fB\-\fR) is written if the
item does not have the segment attribute set.
.RE
.PP
.TP
\fB\-prune\fR
Always yields true.  Does not examine any directories
or files in the directory structure below the pattern
just matched.  If \fB\-depth\fR is  specified, \fB\-prune\fR has
no effect.
.TP
\fB\-ls\fR
True.  Writes information on the current file to standard output.
The information written is in \fBls\fR(1) command format
with \fB\-dils\fR options.  For more information on
the \fBls\fR(1) command, see the \fBls\fR(1) man page.
.sp
By default, the block counts in the output are in 1K blocks.
If the \fBPOSIXLY_CORRECT\fR environment variable is set,
block counts are in \%512-byte blocks.
.SS OPERATORS
An \fIexpression\fR can contain one or more \fIoperators\fR.
The following \fIoperators\fR are listed in order of decreasing precedence:
.TP 15
\fIoperators\fR
\fBAction\fR
.TP
\fB(\fR \fIexpr\fR \fB)\fR
Forces precedence.
.TP
\fB!\fR \fIexpr\fR
True if \fIexpr\fR is false.
.TP
\fB\-not \fIexpr\fR
Same as \fB!\fR \fIexpr\fR.
.TP
\fIexpr1 expr2\fR
And (implied).  \fIexpr2\fR is not evaluated if \fIexpr1\fR is false.
.TP
\fIexpr1\fR \fB\-a \fIexpr2\fR
Same as \fIexpr1 expr2\fR.
.TP
\fIexpr1\fR \fB\-and \fIexpr2\fR
Same as \fIexpr1 expr2\fR.
.TP
\fIexpr1\fR \fB\-o \fIexpr2\fR
Or. \fIexpr2\fR is not evaluated if \fIexpr1\fR is true.
.TP
\fIexpr1\fR \fB\-or \fIexpr2\fR
Same as \fIexpr1\fR \fB\-o \fIexpr2\fR.
.TP
\fIexpr1\fR \fB, \fIexpr2\fR
List.  Both \fIexpr1\fR and \fIexpr2\fR are always evaluated.
The value of \fIexpr1\fR is discarded.  The value of the list is the
value of \fIexpr2\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1.  The following command finds
all files in the \fB/sam4\fR directory that are not archived:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfind /sam4 ! -archived
.ft
.fi
.PP
Example 2.
The following command finds all regular files
in the current directory that are archived,
online, and are nonzero in length:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfind .  -archived -online ! -empty -type f -print
.ft
.fi
.PP
Example 3.  The following command finds
all regular files in the current directory that have archive
copies on VSNs matching the shell pattern  \fBTP??3?\fR.  Note that
shell wildcard characters must be escaped or quoted.
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfind .  -vsn "TP??3?" -type f
.ft
.fi
.PP
Alternatively, the following command could be used:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfind .  -vsn TP\\?\\?3\\? -type f
.ft
.fi
.PP
Example 4.  The following command prints the modification time of
all files in \fB/sam6\fR:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfind /sam6 -printf "file %f mod time %Aa %Ab %Ad %AY %AT\\n"
file file7 mod time Fri Nov 12 1999 18:44:27
.ft
.fi
.PP
Example 5.  The following command finds all files on \fB/sam6\fR that
have at least one archive copy that has sections on more than one VSN,
i.e. all files on \fB/sam6\fR that have at least one archive copy
that overflows VSNs.
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfind /sam6 -ovfl -print
.ft
.fi
.PP
Example 6.  The following command finds all files on \fB/sam6\fR that
have at least one archive copy that has sections on more than one VSN,
but fewer than five VSNs.
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfind /sam6 -sections +1 -sections -5 -print
.ft
.fi
.PP
Example 7.  The following command finds all files in \fB/sam6\fR whose
stripe group was set to a value greater than 3 but less than 8 and whose
stripe width was set to a value greater than 1, but less than 5.  It prints
the file's path, stripe group number and stripe width value:
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfind /sam6 -type f -setfa_g +3 -setfa_g -8 -setfa_s +1 -setfa_s -5 \\
											-printf "Path: %p, g%r, s%w\\n"
Path: /sam6/seismic_scan/030610/1200/scn.dat, g4, s2
.ft
.fi
.PP
Example 8.  The following command finds all files in \fB/sam6\fR which
have disk archive copies on disk volume "diskv1" in file "d1/d4/d201/f107".
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
sfind /sam6 -vsn diskv1 -archpos d1/d4/d201/f107
.ft
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
The \fBsfind\fR(1) command exits with status
of 0 if all files are processed successfully.
It exits with a status greater than 0 if errors occur.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBarchive\fR(1),
\fBfind\fR(1),
\fBrelease\fR(1),
\fBsetfa\fR(1),
\fBssum\fR(1),
\fBstage\fR(1).
.PP
\fBrearch\fR(1M).
.PP
\fBprintf\fR(3C).
