.\" $Revision: 1.19 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH squota 1 "3 Dec 2002"
.SH NAME
squota \- Reports quota information
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBsquota\fR
\%[\fB\-a\fR]
\%[\fB\-g\fR]
\%[\fB\-h\fR]
\%[\fB\-k\fR]
\%[\fB\-u\fR]
\%[\fB\-O\fR]
\%[\fIfile\fR]
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsquota\fR command displays file, block, and quota usage statistics.
.PP
Only a superuser can change
quotas (see \fBsamquota\fR(8)).
.PP
By default, \fBsquota\fR(1)
writes the user's applicable group ID and user ID quotas and usages on
all mounted Sun StorEdge QFS and Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS file systems to
\fBstdout\fR.
.PP
An admin set quota applies to a set of files and directories.  
Typically an admin set quota could be set for a large project that involves
users from several groups and spans several files and directories.
The admin set IDs must be assigned using the \fBsamchaid\fR(8) command.
The \fBsamchaid\fR(8) command allows a system administrator
to assign files and directories to individual admin sets.
Admin set IDs are not tied to any set of permissions
associated with the user.  That is, a user can have a set of
directories and files on one Sun StorEdge QFS or Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
file system with a particular
admin set ID, and the same user can have another set of directories and files
on another file system (or even the same one) with a completely
different admin set ID.
A writable file is therefore used as a surrogate to determine that a user
has permission to view an admin set's quota values.
.SH OPTIONS
This command accepts the following options:
.TP 10
\%\fB\-a\fR
Returns admin set quota statistics.
.TP
\%\fB\-g\fR
Returns group quota statistics.
.TP
\%\fB\-h\fR
Prints a brief usage summary and exits.
.TP
\%\fB\-k\fR
Display all storage units (block quantities) in units
of \%1024-byte blocks.
When specified, all block counts are returned in units of \%1024-byte blocks.
.TP
\%\fB\-u\fR
Returns user quota statistics.
.TP
\%\fB\-O\fR
Returns online statistics only.  The default is to return total statistics
as well as online statistics.
.TP
\%\fIfile\fR
Return the quota information pertaining to \fIfile\fR.
If \fIfile\fR is writeable by the user issuing the command,
information about the applicable
user, group, and admin set IDs is returned.
If \fIfile\fR is not writeable by the user issuing the command,
information about the
quotas for the user's GID and UID on the filesystem that
\fIfile\fR resides on is returned.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1.  The following example is from a system upon which \fB/qfs1\fR
is a mounted Sun QFS file system with group and admin set quotas enabled:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
server% squota
                                    Limits
        Type    ID    In Use     Soft     Hard
/qfs1
Files  group   101         1     1000     1200
Blocks group   101         8    20000    30000
Grace period                    3d
No user quota entry.
.ft
.fi
.PP
Example 2.  The following example is from the same system:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
server% squota /qfs1/george
                                    Limits
        Type    ID    In Use     Soft     Hard
/qfs1/george
Files  admin    12         4        0        0
Blocks admin    12      6824        0        0
Grace period                    0s
---> Infinite quotas in effect.
/qfs1/george
Files  group   101         1     1000     1200
Blocks group   101         8    20000    30000
Grace period                    3d
No user quota entry.
.fi
.ft
.PP
Example 3.  The following example is from a Sun
StorEdge \%SAM-FS file system:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
server% squota /sam1/adams
                                 Online Limits                Total Limits
        Type    ID    In Use     Soft     Hard    In Use     Soft     Hard
/sam1/adams
Files  admin    12         4        0        0         4        0        0
Blocks admin    12      6824        0        0      3950        0        0
Grace period                    0s
---> Infinite quotas in effect.
/sam1/adams
Files  group   101         1     1000     1200         1        0        0
Blocks group   101         8    20000    30000         8   100000   120000
Grace period                    3d
/sam6
Files   user   130        11       15     2000        11       15     6000
Blocks  user   130       320      400   200000       560*     500   700000
Grace period                    0s                          0s
---> Total soft limits under enforcement (since 18h10m1s ago)
.fi
.ft
.SH EXIT STATUS
This command returns the following:
.TP 3
\(bu
0 on successful completion.
.TP
\(bu
1 on a usage or argument error.
.TP
\(bu
10 on an execution error.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\fIfilesytem\fB/\&.quota_a\fR
Admin set quota information
.TP
\fIfilesystem\fB/\&.quota_g\fR
Group quota information
.TP
\fIfilesystem\fB/\&.quota_u\fR
User quota information
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsamquota\fR(8)
.PP
\fBsamfsck\fR(8)
.PP
\fBpasswd\fR(1) - User ID information
.PP
\fBgroup\fR(5) - Group ID information
.PP
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.TP
\fBNo user quota entry.\fR
User quotas are not active on the file system.
.TP
\fBNo group quota entry.\fR
Group quotas are not active on the file system.
.TP
\fBNo admin quota entry.\fR
Admin set quotas are not active on the file system.
