.\" $Revision: 1.20 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH ssum 1 "21 Aug 2002"
.SH NAME
ssum \- Set file checksum attributes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B ssum
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-e ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-g ]
.RB [ \-u ]
.IR filename .\|.\|.\|
.LP
.B ssum
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-e ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-g ]
.RB [ \-u ]
.B \-r
.IR dirname .\|.\|.\|\|[ filename .\|.\|.\|]
.ad b
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ssum
sets the checksum attributes on one or more files.
If the \fIgenerate\fP
attribute is set (\fB\-g\fP), a 128-bit value is generated when the
file is archived.  When the file is subsequently staged, the checksum is again
generated and is compared against the value generated at archive time if
the \fIuse\fP attribute is set (\fB\-u\fP).
By default,
no checksum value is generated or used when archiving or staging a file.
.LP
The \fIgenerate\fP attribute must be set on a file
before any archive copy has been made.  Likewise, the selected algorithm cannot
be changed after an archive copy has been made.
.LP
Direct access (\fBstage \-n\fR) and partial
release (\fBrelease \-p\fR)
are not allowed on a file that has either of the checksum \fIgenerate\fP or
\fIuse\fP attributes set.  Also, it is not valid to specify that a file
never be archived (\fBarchive \-n\fP) as well as specify that a checksum
be generated and/or used.
Therefore, when a direct access, partial release, or archive never
attribute is set on a file, attempting to set the checksum \fIgenerate\fP
or \fIuse\fP attribute on the file will result in an error and the attributes
will be unchanged.  Similarly, when either the checksum \fIgenerate\fP or
\fIuse\fP attribute is set on a file, attempting to set a direct
access, partial release, or archive never attribute on the file will result
in an error and the attributes will be unchanged.
.LP
A file that has the checksum \fIuse\fP attribute set cannot be memory mapped.
The file also must be completely staged to the disk before access is allowed
to the file's data.  This means that accessing the first byte of offline
data in an archived file that
has this attribute set will be slower than accessing the
same archived file when it does not have this attribute set.
This also means that staging will operate the same way as for staging
with the \fB\-w\fP option for a file with the \fIuse\fP attribute not set.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
Return the file's checksum attributes to the default, which turns off
checksumming.
Using the -d option will not reset the 'checksum valid' flag if
a valid checksum has been generated for a file. The -d option
deletes the checksum attributes, if no valid checksum has been
generated.
.TP
.B \-e
Set data verification for the file or directory specified.
This forces the generation and use of checksums for
archiving and staging, and prevents the release of the
file until all archive copies have been created and their
checksums verified. A file with only one archive copy will never be
released. Only a superuser can set this attribute on a file.
.sp
Files created in directories with the -e flag set inherit it.
.TP
.B \-f
Do not report errors.
.TP
.B \-r
Recursively set the attributes for any files
contained in the specified \fIdirname\fP and its subdirectories.
.TP
.B \-g
Generate a checksum value for the file when archiving.
.TP
.B \-u
Use the checksum value for the file when staging.  The \fIgenerate\fP
attribute must have been previously set, or must be set simultaneously.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stage (1),
.BR release (1),
.BR archive (1),
.BR sls (1)
