.\" $Revision: 1.18 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2008 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH stage 1 "23 Feb 2006"
.SH NAME
stage \- Set staging attributes and copy off-line files to disk
.na
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stage
.RB [ \-a ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR n ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.IR filename .\|.\|.\|
.LP
.B stage
.RB [ \-a ]
.RB [ \-c
.IR n ]
.RB [ \-d ]
.RB [ \-f ]
.RB [ \-w ]
.RB [ \-n ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.B \-r
.IR dirname .\|.\|.\|\|  [ filename .\|.\|.\|]
.ad b
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B stage
sets staging attributes on a directory or file,
transfers one or more off-line files from the archive media to magnetic disk, or
cancels a pending or active stage request.
By default,
staging is automatically done when the file is accessed.
If none of the \fB\-a\fP, \fB\-d\fP, \fB\-n\fP, or \fB\-x\fP
options is specified,
staging is initiated.
.LP
When stage attributes are set on a directory, files or directories
subsequently created in that directory inherit those attributes.
.LP
Stage attributes may be set only by the owner of the file or the
superuser.  Staging can be initiated or canceled either by the owner,
superuser, or other user with read or execute permission.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Set the associative staging attribute on the file or directory.
Associative staging is activated when a regular file that has the
associative staging attribute set is staged.  All files in
the same directory that have the associative staging attribute set are
staged. If a symbolic link has the associative staging
attribute set, the file pointed to by the symbolic link is staged.
Not valid with stage never attribute \fB-n\fR.
.TP
.BI \-c " n"
Stage from the archive copy number
.IR n .
.TP
.B \-d
Returns staging attributes on the file to the default.  When this
option is specified the attributes are first reset to the
default, then other attribute-setting options are processed.  The only action
taken is that attributes are reset.
.TP
.B \-f
Do not report errors.
.TP
.B \-w
Wait for each file to be staged back on-line before completing.
Not valid with \fB\-d\fP, or \fB\-n\fP.
.sp
Note that when staging many files at once
(such as with \fBstage -r -w .\fP)
the "-w" option causes each file to be completely staged before the stage
request for the next file is issued.  This does not allow the system to
sort the stage requests in the order that the files are archived on the
media.  In order to get the best performance in this situation, do the
following:
.sp
  stage -r .
  stage -r -w .
.TP
.B \-n
Specifies that the file never be automatically staged. The file will
be read directly from the archive media.
The mmap function is not supported if the stage \fB-n\fR attribute is set.
The stage \fB-n\fR attribute is not valid with the associative staging
attribute \fB-a\fR.
The stage \fB-n\fR attribute is not valid with either of the checksum
\fIgenerate\fP or \fIuse\fP attributes (\fBssum \-g\fP or \fBssum \-u\fP).
The stage \fB-n\fR attribute is not supported on a
Sun \%SAM-QFS shared file system client; the entire file is
staged when accessed on a client.
.TP
.B \-p
Specifies that the offline regular file's partial blocks be staged.
.TP
.B \-r
Recursively performs the operation (staging or setting staging attributes)
on any files contained in the specified
\fIdirname\fP or its subdirectories.
.TP
.B \-V
Turns on verbose display.  A message will be displayed for each file
on which a stage will be attempted.
.TP
.B \-x
Cancel a pending or active stage request for the named file(s).
.SH NOTE
If the application writes (see
.BR write (2))
to a file or
the application mmaps (see
.BR mmap (2))
a file with prot set to PROT_WRITE,
the file is staged in and the application waits until the stage has
completed. The \fBstage \-n\fR attribute is ignored and the file is completely
staged back online.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR release (1),
.BR archive (1),
.BR ssum (1),
.BR mount_samfs(1M),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR write (2)
