.\" $Revision: 1.63 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH defaults.conf 5 "26 Feb 2009"
.SH NAME
defaults.conf \- Set default values for Sun StorEdge QFS and Sun StorEdge SAM software
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/defaults.conf\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.br
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The defaults configuration file allows the site to set certain
default values within the Sun StorEdge QFS and Sun StorEdge SAM
environments.
The \fBdefaults.conf\fR file is read when \fBsam\-fsd\fR
is started.  It may be changed at any time while \fBsam\-fsd\fR
is running.  The changes will take place when \fBsam\-fsd\fR is restarted,
or sent the signal SIGHUP.
Temporary changes to the environment values can be made using 
the \fBsamset\fR(1M) command.
.LP
The \fBdefaults.conf\fR file consists of directive lines that are separated
into two sections, the environment variable section and the trace file control
section.
.SS Environment variables.
The commands for the environment section of the
file consists of a list of \fBkeyword = \fIvalue\fR pairs
that set \%site-definable defaults.  All \fBkeyword\fR
and \fIvalue\fR
entries are \%case-sensitive and must be entered as shown.
Values can be either
unquoted strings (if string values are expected) or integers in
decimal (123), octal, (0123) or hex (0x123) format.
.LP
The keywords and their expected arguments are as follows:
.TP 10
\fBattended = yes \fR|\fB no\fR
If \fBattended = yes\fR, it is assumed that an operator
is available to mount media that is not flagged as unavailable
by the historian;
the default is \fByes\fR.
If \fBattended = no\fR, any request for media known to
the historian is rejected unless it is already mounted. 
.TP
\fBdebug = \fIoptions\fR
Sets the default for the debug flags used by the Sun StorEdge QFS and Sun
StorEdge SAM daemons for logging messages.
For \fIoptions\fR, specify a \%space-separated list of debug options
from the list of possible options described on the
\fBsamset\fR(1M) man page.
The default is \fBlogging\fR.
.TP
\fBdevlog = \fIeq_number\fR \fR[ \fIevent \&.\&.\&.\fR ]
Manipulates the device log event flags for the device specified
by \fBEquipment Number\fR \fIeq_number\fR.  The \fIeq_number\fR must be
either the keyword \fBall\fR (to specify all devices) or must match
an \fBEquipment Number\fR from the \fBmcf\fR file.  
.sp
The device log event flags control the events that get written to
the device log files.
For the list of possible \fIevent\fR arguments, see
the \fBsamset\fR(1M) man page.
To specify more than one \fIevent\fR, separate the \fIevent\fRs
in the list with space characters.
The default is \fBerr retry syserr date\fR.
.TP
\fIdev\fB_blksize = \fIsize\fR
Specifies the default block size for tapes of type \fIdev\fR.
For \fIsize\fR, specify
\fB16\fR, \fB32\fR, \fB64\fR, \fB128\fR, \fB256\fR, \fB512\fR,
\fB1024\fR, or \fB2048\fR.
The \fIsize\fR value is multiplied by 1024 to arrive at the
actual block size.  
.sp
For information on supported \fIdev\fR arguments and for
information on the default released block sizes for various media,
see the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.sp
The default is used when no \fIsize\fR is specified
or during automatic labeling when \fBlabels = barcodes\fR has been specified.
For information on how the default can be overridden when manually
labeling a tape, see the \fBtplabel\fR(1M) man page.
.TP
\fIdev\fB_delay = \fIseconds\fR
Specifies the dismount time, in seconds, for device type \fIdev\fR.
After a cartridge is loaded onto this device type,
this time must elapse before the cartridge unloaded and another
cartridge is loaded.
By default, \fIdev\fB_delay = 30\fR.
For information on supported \fIdev\fR arguments, see
the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.TP
\fIdev\fB_position_timeout = \fIseconds\fR
Specifies the timeout value, in seconds, to be used during tape
positioning for device type \fIdev\fR.
During most tape positioning command processing (such as locate and space)
this is the maximum amount of time to wait for the command to complete.
For information on the default values, see the example file
(\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/defaults.conf\fR)
supplied with your software.
Any device not in the example file defaults to \fB1800\fR seconds.
For information on supported \fIdev\fR arguments, see
the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.TP
\fIdev\fB_unload = \fIseconds\fR
Specifies the unload wait time, in seconds, for device type \fIdev\fR.
This is the amount of time that the library daemons wait
after the device driver returns from a SCSI unload command.
This interval gives the library time to eject the media,
open the door, and perform other actions before the daemon
commands the library to remove the media.
The \fIseconds\fR specified should
the longest time needed for the \%worst-case library configured.  
For information on the default values, see the example file
(\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/defaults.conf\fR)
supplied with your software.
Any device not in the example file defaults to \fB0\fR seconds.
For information on supported \fIdev\fR arguments, see
the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.TP 10
\fBexported_media = \fIvalue\fR
Declares exported media to be available or unavailable to the
historian, as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 2
\(bu
If \fBexported_media = available\fR,
media exported from a library is considered to be available
in the historian.
The default is \fBavailable\fR.
.TP 2
\(bu
If \fBexported_media = unavailable\fR,
media exported from a library is considered to be unavailable
in the historian.
Cartridges with this characteristic are not used by the archiver,
stager, or other Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS tools.
They are considered to reside outside of the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
environment.
This might be used, for example, for cartridges to be transported
to offsite storage.
.RE
.RS 10
.sp
For more information, see the \fBhistorian\fR(7) man page.
.RE
.TP
\fBidle_unload = \fIseconds\fR
Specifies the time, in \fIseconds\fR,
that a \%library-controlled device can be idle before the media
in that device is unloaded.
Specifying \fBidle_unload = 0\fR disables this feature.
By default, \fBidle_unload = 600\fR, which is 10 minutes. 
.TP
\fBshared_unload = \fIseconds\fR
Specifies the time, in \fIseconds\fR,
that a shared \%library-controlled device can be idle before the media
in that device is unloaded. A device is shared if it is used by more 
than one Sun StorEdge SAM server. For more information on
shared devices see the \fBsony\fR(7), the \fBibm3494\fR(7), or the
\fBstk\fR(7) man page.
Specifying \fBshared_unload = 0\fR disables this feature.
By default, \fBshared_unload = 60\fR, which is 60 seconds.
.TP
\fBinodes\fR
This keyword is still accepted for backward compatibility, but
it has no effect.  For more information, see the \fBsamfs.cmd\fR(4)
man page.
.TP
\fBlabels = \fImode\fR
For tape libraries with bar code label readers, this keyword
sets the tape label equal to the first or the last characters of
the bar code label (uppercased).
For \fImode\fR, specify either \fBbarcodes\fR, \fBbarcodes_low\fR,
or \fBread\fR, as follows:
.RS 10
.TP 2
\(bu
If \fBlabels = barcodes\fR, the
first part of the bar code is used as the label.
Default.
.TP
\(bu
If \fBlabels = barcodes_low\fR, the
last part of bar code is used as the label.
.TP
\(bu
If \fBlabels = read\fR, the label is read from the tape.
If you wish to have the labels different from the barcodes on a library
with a bar code label reader, you must set \fBlabels = read\fR.
.RE
.RS 10
.sp
When \fBlabels\fP is set
to \fBbarcodes\fP or \fBbarcodes_low\fP, a label is written to
the tape before the write is enabled for any tape mounted
for a write operation that is write enabled, unlabeled and has a readable
bar code label.
.RE
.TP
\fBlog = \fIfacility\fR
Sets the facility code used for issuing log messages.
For information on the accepted \fIfacility\fR types, see
the \fBsyslog\fR(3)\fR man page.
The default is \fBLOG_LOCAL7\fR.
.TP
\fBoper_privileges = \fIprivilege\fR
Adds privileges to the operator group.
By default, members of the operator group do not have the
privileges to perform the following tasks:  media labeling,
performing storage element movement
actions, submitting full audit requests, changing a device state
(except to \fBON\fR a device), and clearing mount requests.
To grant the privileges needed to perform those actions,
specify one or more of the following \fIprivilege\fR arguments.
.RS 10
.TP 12
\fIprivilege\fR
\fBResult\fR
.TP
\fBall\fR
Grants all privileges in this list.
.TP
\fBclear\fR
Grants the ability to clear cartridge load requests.
.TP
\fBfullaudit\fR
Grants the ability to perform a full library audit.
.TP
\fBlabel\fR
Allows cartridge labeling.
.TP
\fBslot\fR
Allows mounting, unloading, and moving cartridges within a library.
.TP
\fBstate\fR
Grants the ability to change the device state.
Operator group members can \fBON\fR devices regardless of this setting.
.RE
.RS 10
.sp
Use a space character between \fIprivilege\fR arguments if specifying
more than one.
.RE
.TP 10
\fBoperator = \fIgroup\fR
Specifies the name of the group that to be granted operational
privileges within certain commands
(\fBchmed(1M)\fR, \fBload(1M)\fR, \fBsamfsdump(1M)\fR,
and \fBsamfsrestore(1M)\fR)
and command queues.
Only one \fIgroup\fR name can be specified.
Users must have their effective group IDs set to \fIgroup\fR
in order to gain operational privileges.
.sp
.TP
\fBoptical = \fImedia_type\fR
Sets the default media type to \fImedia_type\fR
when a generic optical disk
(\fBod\fR) is requested.
A string value is expected.
For information on the accepted media types, see the \fBmcf\fR(4)
man page.
The default is \fBmo\fR.
.TP
\fBpreviews = \fIrequests\fR
Sets the number of outstanding mount requests.
Care should be taken when changing this value.
Each entry takes about 500 bytes of shared memory.
By default, \fBpreviews = 100\fR.
.TP
\fBsamrpc = on \fR|\fB off\fR
Invokes the RPC API server process.
If \fBsamrpc = on\fR, the RPC API server process, \fBsam-rpcd\fR, is
automatically started when Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun StorEdge QFS
is started.
By default, \fBsamrpc = off\fR, so \fBsam-rpcd\fR is not started
automatically.
.TP
\fBremote_keepalive = \fIseconds\fR 
Specifies the time in seconds the SAMremote server can be idle
before a SAMremote client sends a packet to check for the existence of
the server. By default, \fBremote_keepalive = 300\fR, which is five minutes.
Specifying \fBremote_keepalive = 0\fR disables the keepalive function.
.TP
\fBalerts = on \fR|\fB off\fR
Specifies whether alert notification via
Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) or
fault history logging via the GUI
is supported.
With this turned on, you can monitor a Sun StorEdge QFS or Sun
StorEdge SAM system remotely from a management
console such as Sun Remote Services (SRS)
By default, \fBalerts=on\fR is in effect.
.TP
\fBavail_timeout = \fIseconds\fR
Allows the stager to delay before unloading a volume being
used to stage a file with the \fBstage -n\fR attribute set.
This allows a subsequent stage request for this file to
be processed in preference to a file requesting a different
volume.
Setting \fBavail_timeout = 0\fR disables this function.
By default, \fBavail_timeout = 0\fR.
.TP
\fBstale_time = \fIminutes\fR
Sends an error to any request for removable media that has
waited for \fIminutes\fR number of minutes.
Setting \fBstale_time = 0\fR, disables this function.
By default, \fBstale_time = 30\fR.
.TP
\fBtape = \fImedia_type\fR
Sets the default media type to \fImedia_type\fR when
a generic tape (\fBtp\fR)
is requested.
A string value is expected.
For information on the accepted media types, see the \fBmcf\fR(4)
man page.
The default is \fBlt\fR.
.TP
\fBtimeout = \fIseconds\fR
Sets the timeout interval, in seconds, for direct access
removable media.  If a process fails to issue an
I/O request to the device within this time, the device is
removed from job assignment and the process receives
an \fBETIME\fR when the next I/O to the device commences.
Specifying \fBtimeout = 0\fR disables this timeout.
The minimum value allowed is \fBtimeout = 600\fR.
For backwards compatibility, values from 1 to 599
are allowed, but are overridden by the minimum value.
By default, \fBtimeout = 600\fR.
.TP
\fBtp_mode = \fImode\fR
Specifies the mode set for tape drive device nodes when
not under control of the Sun StorEdge SAM software.
For information, see the \fBchmod\fR(2) man page.
When the Sun StorEdge SAM software
is controlling the drive,
the mode bits are \fB0660\fR.
.TP
\fBtapealert = \fIeq_number\fR  \fIon | off\fR
Enables or disables media changer or tape drive TapeAlert support 
by \fBEquipment Number\fR \fIeq_number\fR.  The \fIeq_number\fR must be
either the keyword \fBall\fR (to specify all devices) or must match
a tape device \fBEquipment Number\fR from the \fBmcf\fR file.
By default, \fBtapealert = all on\fR.
.TP
\fBsamstorade = \fIon | off\fR
Enables or disables the StorADE API.  The API provides Sun StorEdge SAM
device attributes and health information for StorADE fault analysis.  By
default, \fBsamstorade = on\fR.
.TP
\fBsef = \fIeq_number\fR  \fI[on|off|default] interval\fR
Enables or disables support for tape drive implemented
Log Sense delivered via sysevents
by \fBEquipment Number\fR \fIeq_number\fR.  The \fIeq_number\fR must be
either the keyword \fBall\fR (to specify all devices) or must match
an \fBEquipment Number\fR from the \fBmcf\fR file.  The interval
specfies the log sense polling rate.  A value of 300 is a polling
interval once every five minutes.  A string value of "once"
specifies one time just before media unload and is the default.  A value
of 3600 is a polling interval once every hour.  The smallest polling interval
is five minutes.  By default, \fBsef = all on once\fR.

\fBNote:\fR The defaults.conf sef entry only controls the equipment number and
frequency interval for sef data. It is the  presence or absence of the file
\fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/sef/sefdata\fR at SAM-QFS initialization that determines
if sef will run or not. When \fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/sef/sefdata\fR is present,
sef will be initialized. You must create the sefdata file yourself. To turn
off sef, the sefdata file must be removed or renamed.
.TP
\fBtapeclean = \fIeq_number\fR  \fIautoclean\fR \fI[on|off]\fR \fIlogsense\fR \fI[on|off]\fR
Enable or disable the robot initiated auto-cleaning feature.  Enable or
disable additional auto-cleaning log sense cleaning indicators from the 
TapeAlert log sense page(2E) flags clean now(20), clean periodic(21) and
expired cleaning media(23) and the Sequential-Access Device log sense page(0C)
cleaning required flag in parameter(256).  Support is by
\fBEquipment Number\fR \fIeq_number\fR.  The \fIeq_number\fR must be either
the keyword \fBall\fR (to specify all devices) or must match a tape device 
\fBEquipment Number\fR from the \fBmcf\fR file.
Note that the \fIlogsense\fR \fIon\fR setting has no effect unless \fIautoclean\fR
is also \fIon\fR.
By default, \fBtapeclean = all autoclean off logsense on\fR.
Note: When using the auto-cleaning feature with a library that has more than two 
drives, it is recommended that you have at least two cleaning cartridges per robot. If a
cleaning cartridge is not available when a drive needs to be cleaned, the drive 
will be put into a \fIdown\fR state.
.SS Trace file controls.
.LP
The daemon trace files are controlled by directives in the trace file section.
This section begins with the
.B trace
directive, and ends with the
.B endtrace
directive.
The trace file control directives are of the form:

.IB daemon_name . variable_name " = " value
.br
.IB daemon_name " = on"
.br
.IB daemon_name " = off"
.LP
.I daemon_name
can be one of the following:
.BR sam-archiverd ", " sam-catserverd ", " sam-fsd ", "
.BR sam-rftd ", " sam-recycler ", " sam-sharefsd ", "
.BR sam-stagerd ", " sam-serverd ", " sam-clientd ", "
.BR fsmgmt ", or all .
.PP
Note that \fBfsmgmt\fR is used by \fBfsmgmtd\fR
and \fBlibfsmgmt.so\fR.
.LP
If
.I daemon_name
is
.BR all ,
then the
.I variable_name
is set to
.I value
for all daemons.
.LP
For the form:
.IB daemon_name " = on"
the trace file controls will be set to the pre-defined values for
.IR daemon_name .
.LP
In particular, using only the directive
.br
.B all = on
.br
enables tracing for all daemons.
The trace files are written to files
named for the daemons (e.g. \%\fBsam-rftd\fR) in the
\fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/trace\fR subdirectory.
.LP
For the form:
.IB daemon_name " = off"
tracing will be turned off for
.IR daemon_name .
.LP
The
.I variable_name
is one of:
.BR file ", " options ", " age ", or "
.BR size .
.TP
.IB daemon_name ".file " file_name
set the name of the trace file to
.IR file_name .
The default is no trace file.

If the
.I daemon_name
is
.BR all ,
then 
.I file_name
is the name of the  trace subdirectory that will contain the daemon tracefiles.
.I file_name
must be absolute in this case.  The default subdirectory is
.BR /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/trace .

If
.IR file_name
is relative (no leading '/'), the file name will be made relative to the trace
base directory.
If the file does not exist,
.B sam-fsd
will create it.
.TP
.IB daemon_name ".options = " option_list
Set the trace file options to
.IR option_list .
.I option_list
is a space separated list of trace options.  A trace option is an event to
trace, or an element to include in the trace line.  To exclude an
.IR option ,
prefix the
.I option
with a '-'.
.RS
.LP
For selecting events,
.I option
may be one or more of:
.TP 8
.B none
Clear all event types.
.TP
.B all
Set event types for tracing the most interesting events.  These are:
.BR "cust err fatal ipc misc proc rft" .
.TP
.B alloc
Memory allocations.
.TP
.B cust
Customer notification syslog or notify file messages.
.TP
.B err
Non-fatal program errors.
.TP
.B fatal
Fatal syslog messages.
.TP
.B files
File actions.
.TP
.B rft
File transfer events.
.TP
.B ipc
Inter process communication.
.TP
.B misc
Miscellaneous.
.TP
.B oprmsg
Operator messages.
.TP
.B proc
Process initiation and completion.
.TP
.B queue
Archiver queue contents when changed.
.LP
For selecting message elements,
.I option
may be one or more of:
.TP 8
.B date
Include the date in message (the time is always included).
.TP
.B module
Include source file name and line number in message.
.TP
.B type
Include event type in message.
.LP
The pre-defined events are:
.BR cust ,
.BR err ,
.BR fatal ,
.BR misc ,
.BR proc ,
.BR rft .
The message elements program[pid] and time are always included
and can't be deselected.
.RE
.TP
.IB daemon_name ".age = " age
Set the time between trace file rotations to
.IR age .
.I age may be specified with the suffixes 's', 'm', 'h', 'd', 'w' and 'y', for
seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks and years.
Note: Do not set this value to two minutes or less. If you do, the rotation
will never take place.
.B sam-fsd
can perform trace file "rotations" using the script
.BR /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/trace_rotate .
Trace file rotations are useful to control the size of trace files.
.TP
.IB daemon_name ".size = " size
Set the trace file
.I size
at which trace file rotations will be performed.
.I size
may be specified with the suffices 'b', 'k', 'M', 'G', and 'T', for bytes,
kilobytes, megabytes, gigabytes, and terabytes.

.SH EXAMPLES
Here is a sample \fBdefaults.conf\fR configuration file.
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
optical = mo
debug = logging debug timing
tape = lt
log = LOG_LOCAL7
timeout = 30
idle_unload = 600
tp_mode = 0666
rc_delay = 10
cy_delay = 10
ml_delay = 10
hp_delay = 10
ds_delay = 10
lt_unload = 7
st_unload = 15
lt_blksize = 16
operator = sam
oper_privileges = label slot
trace
all = on		# Turn on tracing for all daemons
sam-archiverd.size = 10M # Rotate archiver trace file after 10 megabytes
sam-rftd.file = /tmp/sam-rftd.trace  # change file name for sam-rft daemon
sam-recycler = off  # Turn off tracing for sam-recycler daemon
endtrace
.fi
.ft
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/defaults.conf\fR
Contains an example of a \fBdefaults.conf\fR file.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBrequest\fR(1).
.PP
\fBsamset\fR(1M),
\fBsam-fsd\fR(1M),
\fBtplabel\fR(1M),
\fBtapealert\fR(1M).
.PP
\fBchmod\fR(2).
.PP
\fBsyslog\fR(3).
.PP
\fBmcf\fR(4),
\fBsamfs.cmd\fR(4),
\fBtrace_rotate\fR(4),
\fBsefsysevent\fR(4).
.PP
\fBhistorian\fR(7).
