.\" $Revision: 1.11 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH hosts.fs.local 5 "29 Apr 2002"
.SH NAME
\fBhosts.fs.local\fR \- Local host information for Sun StorEdge QFS shared file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.\fIfs\fB.local\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
A \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.\fIfs\fB.local\fR file
can reside on each
host system included in the Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system.
This file is used in conjuntion with the shared hosts
file, which resides in the shared file system and is
initialized by \fBsammkfs\fR(1M) from \fBhosts.fs\fR(4),
to initialize network connections between the hosts
of a shared file system.
For more information,
see the \fBhosts.fs\fR(4) and \fBsamsharefs\fR(1M) man pages.
.PP
The Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system daemon uses
the \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/\fBhosts.\fIfs\fB.local\fR file
and the shared hosts file present in the file system
during initialization and reconfiguration to determine
the server interfaces to which it should attempt to connect.
Its function is to restrict the server interfaces to which each
client connects.
The \fIfs\fR portion of the name must be the family set name
of the Sun StorEdge QFS shared file
system as specified in the \fBmcf\fR file.  For more information on
the \fBmcf\fR file, see the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.LP
Each line in the \fBhosts.\fIfs\fB.local\fR file
corresponds to a possible metadata server.
Each line contains the following fields:
.TP 15
\fBField Number\fR
\fBContent\fR
.TP
1
The name of the host.
This field contains the name of a potential metadata
server host to which the local host can connect.
This field must match the first field of the host
in the shared hosts file.
You can use the \fBsamsharefs\fR(1M) command to verify the content
of the fields of the shared hosts file.
.TP
2
A \%comma-separated list of host IP names or addresses.
This should be a subset of the second field from the same hosts entry
in the shared hosts file.
.PP
The \fBhosts.\fIfs\fB.local\fR file is typically generated
by copying the shared file system's shared hosts file to
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.\fIfs\fR.\fBlocal\fR on each host.
Each line referring to a non-server host is then deleted,
and the third through fifth fields in the remaining lines
are deleted.
The network topology of the hosts is then examined in
conjunction with the file, and the server interfaces that
the local host should not attempt to connect to are removed
from the second field.  When all of these have been removed,
the file is written out.
The \fBsamd\fR(1M) command is then used to cause any
configuration changes to take effect.
.PP
During startup and file system reconfiguration,
the \fBsam-sharefsd\fR(1M)
daemon attempts to connect to the server host.
To do this, it searches the shared hosts file for the server's
identity, and it extracts the list of IP names and addresses from
the server's shared hosts file entry.
The daemon then looks up the server's name in the file system's
local hosts file, if any.
If a local hosts file does not exist, the daemon uses the
list from the shared hosts file.
If the local hosts file does exist, then the corresponding
list of host addresses is found in the local hosts file,
the two lists of host addresses are searched (lexically) for
common entries, and a common list is generated.
The ordering of the list is determined by the local hosts file
(left-most first).
The names or addresses in the common list are looked up and used
to attempt to connect to the server.
If an attempt fails, the daemon attempts using any remaining
addresses in order until all the addresses have been tried.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following shared hosts configuration file supports
a configuration in which two potential servers share a
private interconnection and communicate to the other hosts sharing
the file system using a separate network.  The examples in this section
show the \fBhosts.shsam1.local\fR files that can be found on the
various hosts.
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
#
# shsam1 config, titan/tethys servers, mimas/dione clients
#
# This file goes in titan:/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.shsam1, and
# is used by 'mkfs -S shsam1' to initialize the FS meta data.
# Subsequent changes to the configuration are made using
# samsharefs(1M).
#
titan   titan-ge,titan.xyzco.com 1 0 server
tethys  tethys-ge,tethys.xyzco.com 2 0
mimas   mimas.xyzco.com 0 0
dione   dione.xyzco.com 0 0
.fi
.ft
.PP
To ensure that \fBtitan\fR and \fBtethys\fR always
connect to each other through
their private interfaces, \fB\%titan-ge\fR and \fB\%tethys-ge\fR,
each requires a \fBhosts.\fIfs\fB.local\fR(4) file.
To achieve this, files \fBtitan:/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.shsam1.local\fR
and \fBtethys:/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.shsam1.local\fR
would contain the following lines:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
#
# shsam1 server local config, titan/tethys servers, mimas/dione clients
#
titan   titan-ge
tethys  tethys-ge
.fi
.ft
.PP
To avoid the delays and inefficiencies of having \fBmimas\fR and \fBdione\fR
attempt to
connect to \fBtitan\fR and \fBtethys\fR through the inaccessible,
private \fB\%titan-ge\fR and \fB\%tethys-ge\fR
interfaces, \fBmimas\fR and \fBdione\fR should also have
their own \fBhosts.\fIfs\fB.local\fR(4)
files.  Files \fBmimas:/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.shsam1.local\fR
and \fBdione:/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.shsam1.local\fR contain
the following lines:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
#
# shsam1 client local config, titan/tethys servers, mimas/dione clients
#
titan   titan.xyzco.com
tethys  tethys.xyzco.com
.fi
.ft
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/hosts.shsam1\fR
Contains an example of a \fBhosts.\fIfs\fR file.
.TP 20
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/hosts.shsam1.local.server\fR
.TP 20
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/hosts.shsam1.local.client\fR
Contain examples of \fBhosts.\fIfs\fB.local\fR files.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBsamfsck\fR(1M),
\fBsamfsconfig\fR(1M),
\fBsammkfs\fR(1M),
\fBsamsharefs\fR(1M),
\fBsam-sharefsd\fR(1M).
.PP
\fBhosts.fs\fR(4),
\fBmcf\fR(4).
