.\" $Revision: 1.12 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH hosts.fs 5 "29 Apr 2002"
.SH NAME
\fBhosts.fs\fR \- Host information for Sun StorEdge QFS shared file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.\fIfs\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.PP
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.\fIfs\fR file specifies the hosts
and network interfaces used by a Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system.
The \fIfs\fR suffix must be the family set name of the
Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system as specified in the \fBmcf\fR(4) file.
.PP
The file \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.\fIfs\fR is required by
\fBsammkfs\fR(1M) at the time a Sun StorEdge QFS shared  file system is created.
The \fBsammkfs\fR(1M) command reads \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.\fIfs\fR
and integrates the information into the file system when
initializing the file system.
The file system's shared hosts information can be subsequently modified
using the \fBsamsharefs\fR(1M) command.
.PP
Another file,
\fBhosts.\fIfs\fB.local\fR(4), can also reside on each
host system included in the shared file system.
Daemons local to each host system use the shared hosts
file and the local hosts file, if any, to initialize network connections
for the shared file system.
.PP
Each file system's shared hosts file determines the host configuration
for that file system.  This includes the following:
.TP 2
\(bu
The identity of the file system's metadata server.
.TP
\(bu
The host systems (and host IP interfaces) that are allowed to
connect to the Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system's metadata server.
.TP
\(bu
The identities of the potential metadata server hosts.  These
are systems that can act as the file system's metadata server
if the preferred metadata server is unavailable.
.PP
The \fBhosts.\fIfs\fR file is comprised of lines containing
five fields of information.
Each line corresponds to one host that is permitted to access the file system.
The fields are as follows:
.TP 15
\fBField Number\fR
\fBContent\fR
.TP
1
The name of the host.
The host name field contains the name of a host
that is to be permitted access to the shared file system.
The value of this field must match the output of the
\fBhostname\fR(1) command on that host.
.TP
2
The host IP addresses.
The host IP address field contains a list of one or more
host IP interface addresses or names that the metadata server
must be able to resolve to IP addresses.
If there are multiple IP interfaces that a host can use
to connect to a server, they must be separated by commas.
.IP
You should avoid using a domain name in this field, because
during the reboot process, when sam-fsd is trying to contact the
metadata server, naming services are likely not up. This means
that the name may not be resolvable if it is not in the
/etc/inet/ipnodes or /etc/inet/hosts file; this will cause
the mount to fail and could cause the reboot to hang.
.TP
3
The server priority of the host.
The server priority field is a numeric field.
If the field is zero, the host cannot act as the metadata
server for the file system.
If the field is nonzero,
the host can act as the metadata server for the file system.
.TP
4
A number that indicates the stager priority.
This numeric field is not used by the shared file system software.
It is recommended that this field be set to zero.
.TP
5
A server field.
This optional field must be set for one of the
hosts in the \fBhosts.\fIfs\fR file.  That host must have a
nonzero server priority field.  If present, this field
must contain the string \fBserver\fR.
.PP
In this file, a pound character (\fB#\fR) indicates a
comment.  Comments continue from the pound character to the end of
the line.  All characters to the right of the pound character are ignored.
.PP
After the file system is initialized using the \fBsammkfs\fR(1M)
command, only the metadata server host is permitted to run
the \fBsamfsck\fR(1M) to repair the file system.
The server on which \fBsammkfs\fR(1M) is run is typically
declared to be the metadata server.
.PP
When a client is attempting to connect to the metadata server,
the client obtains the list of names and addresses
from the second field, which is the host IP address field,
of the server's row in the \fBhosts.\fIfs\fR file.
It attempts to connect to these names, in the order
in which they appear, until it connects successfully.
If the client has a local \fBhosts.\fIfs\fB.local\fR(4) file,
only the names or addresses that are present in both files are used.
The \fBhosts.\fIfs\fB.local\fR(4) file determines the order
in which host connections are attempted.
.LP
When a metadata server receives a connect attempt, it
performs address lookups on the values from the second column
of the \fBhosts.\fIfs\fR file until it finds one that matches the
IP address of the incoming connection.
If it fails to find one, it refuses the connection.
.PP
For file systems that are mounted at boot time, you should add the file
system's hosts to the /etc/inet/hosts or /etc/inet/ipnodes files. On clients,
the names of the servers should be added; on servers, all of the file
system's hosts should be added.
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBExample 1.\fR  The following is a sample \fBhosts.\fIfs\fR
configuration file called \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.shsam1\fR.
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
#
# shsam1 config, titan/tethys servers, mimas/dione clients
#
# This file goes in titan:/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.shsam1,
# and is used by 'sammkfs -S shsam1' to initialize the FS
# meta data.  Subsequent changes to the configuration are
# made using samsharefs(1M).
#
#
titan   titan       1 0 server
tethys  tethys      2 0
mimas   mimas       0 0
dione   dione       0 0
.fi
.ft
.PP
\fBExample 2.\fR  This hosts configuration file is more complicated
that the one in example 1.  It supports
a configuration where two potential servers also have a
private interconnect between them.
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
#
# shsam1 config, titan/tethys servers, mimas/dione clients
#
# This file goes in titan:/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.shsam1, and
# is used by mkfs -S to initialize the FS meta data.  Subsequent
# changes to the configuration are made using samsharefs(1M).
#
#
titan   titan-ge,titan.xyzco.com 1 0 server
tethys  tethys-ge,tethys.xyzco.com 2 0
mimas   mimas.xyzco.com 0 0
dione   dione.xyzco.com 0 0
.fi
.ft
.PP
To ensure that \fBtitan\fR and \fBtethys\fR always
connect to each other
through their private interfaces, \fB\%titan-ge\fR
and \fB\%tethys-ge\fR,
each must have a hosts.shsam1.local file
(see \fBhosts.fs.local\fR(4)).
To avoid the inefficiencies of attempting to
connect to the unreachable \fB\%titan-ge\fR and \fB\%tethys-ge\fR
interfaces, \fBmimas\fR and \fBdione\fR should also have
their own hosts.shsam1.local files.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/hosts.shsam1\fR
Contains an example of a \fBhosts.\fIfs\fR file.
.TP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/hosts.shsam1.local.server\fR
.TP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/examples/hosts.shsam1.local.client\fR
Contain examples of \fBhosts.\fIfs\fB.local\fR(4) files.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBhostname\fR(1).
.PP
\fBsamfsck\fR(1M),
\fBsamfsconfig\fR(1M),
\fBsammkfs\fR(1M),
\fBsamsharefs\fR(1M),
\fBsam-sharefsd\fR(1M).
.PP
\fBhosts.fs.local\fR(4),
\fBmcf\fR(4).
