.\" $Revision: 1.47 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH inquiry.conf 5 "03 Dec 2001"
.SH NAME
inquiry.conf \- SCSI inquiry strings for Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS device types
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/inquiry.conf\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The inquiry configuration file, \fBinquiry.conf\fR,
maps a SCSI device to a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS device type.
The \fBinquiry.conf\fR
file contains the vendor identification and product identification
reported by a SCSI device in response to an inquiry command.
.PP
Entries in the file are made up of three quoted fields separated 
by a comma and/or white space and optionally followed by a comment.
These entries have the following format:
.PP
\fB"\fIvendor_id\fB", "\fIproduct_id\fB", "\fISAM-FS_name\fB"  #\fIcomment\fR
.PP
The \fIvendor_id\fR and \fIproduct_id\fR
are the vendor identification (8\ characters) and 
product identification (16\ characters) as reported in the inquiry data.
The \fISAM-FS_name\fR is the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS device name as
described subsequently on this man page.
.PP
Trailing spaces do not need to be supplied in
the \fIvendor_id\fR or the \fIproduct_id\fR fields.
Any occurrence of a quotation mark (\fB"\fR), a comma (\fB,\fR), or a
back slash (\fB\\\fR) in any \fI_id\fR field 
should be prefaced with the escape character, which is a back
slash (\fB\\\fR).
Blank lines and lines beginning with a pound character (\fB#\fR)
are ignored.
.PP
The following device names are supported within the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
and Sun \%SAM-QFS environments:
.PP
.TP 15
\fBDevice Name\fR
\fBDevice Type\fR
.TP
.B acl2640
ACL 2640 tape library
.TP
.B acl452
ACL 4/52 tape library
.TP
.B adic448
ADIC 448 tape library
.TP
.B adic100
ADIC Scalar 100 tape library
.TP
.B adic1000
ADIC Scalar 1000 and Scalar 10K tape library
.TP
.B archdat
Archive Python 4mm DAT drive
.TP
.B atl1500
Sun StorEdge L25 and L100 and ATL M1500 and M2500 libraries.
.TP
.B atlp3000
ATL P3000, P4000 and P7000 tape library
.TP
.B cyg1803
Cygnet Jukebox 1803 library
.TP
.B dlt2000
Digital Linear Tape (2000, 4000, 7000, 8000 and SuperDLT series) drive
.TP
.B dlt2700
Digital Linear Tape Media Changer/Stacker (2000, 4000, 7000, 8000 and SuperDLT series)
.TP
.B docstor
DISC automated library
.TP
.B exb210
Exabyte 210 tape library
.TP
.B exbx80
Exabyte X80 tape library
.TP
.B exb8505
Exabyte 8505 8mm cartidge tape drive
.TP
.B exbm2
Exabyte Mammoth-2 8mm cartidge tape drive
.TP
.B fujitsu_128
Fujitsu M8100 128 track tape drive
.TP
.B grauaci
GRAU media library 
.TP
.B hpc7200
HP L9/L20/L60 series libraries
.TP
.B hpslxx
HP SL48 tape library
.TP
.B hpc1716
HP erasable optical disk drive
.TP
.B hpoplib
HP optical library
.TP
.B ibmatl
IBM ATL library
.TP
.B ibm0632
IBM multifunction optical disk drive
.TP
.B ibm3570
IBM 3570 tape drive 
.TP
.B ibm3570c
IBM 3570 media changer
.TP
.B ibm3580
IBM 3580, Seagate Viper 200 and HP Ultrium (LTO) tape drives
.TP
.B ibm3584
IBM 3584 media changer
.TP
.B ibm3590
IBM 3590 tape drive 
.TP
.B lms4100
Laser Magnetic Laserdrive 4100
.TP
.B lms4500
Laser Magnetic Laserdrive 4500
.TP
.B metd28
Metrum D-28 tape library
.TP
.B metd360
Metrum D-360 tape library
.TP
.B qual82xx
Qualstar 42xx, 62xx and 82xx series tape library
.TP
.B quantumc4
Quantum PX500 and Sun StorEdge C4 tape library
.TP
.B rap4500
Laser Magnetic RapidChanger 4500
.TP
.B rsp2150
Metrum RSP-2150 VHS video tape drive
.TP
.B sonyait
Sony AIT tape drive
.TP
.B sonysait
Sony Super AIT tape drive
.TP
.B sonydms
Sony Digital Mass Storage tape library
.TP
.B sonycsm
Sony CSM-20S tape library
.TP
.B sonydtf
Sony DTF tape drive
.TP
.B speclog
Spectra Logic Libraries
.TP
.B stk4280
StorageTek 4280 Tape drive
.TP
.B stk9490
StorageTek 9490 Tape drive
.TP
.B stk9840
StorageTek 9840 Tape drive
.TP
.B stktitan
StorageTek Titanium Tape drive
.TP
.B stkapi
StorageTek API library
.TP
.B stkd3
StorageTek D3 Tape drive
.TP
.B stk97\fIxx\fR
StorageTek 97\fIxx\fR Media Libraries
.TP
.B stkl\fIxx\fR
StorageTek L20, L40, L80 and L500 Tape Libraries and Sun StorEdge L7 and L8 
autoloaders.
.TP
.B odi_neo
Overland Data Inc. Neo Series Tape Libraries
.RE
.PD
.LP
.SH EXAMPLES
The following is an example configuration file:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
"HP",       "Ultrium 1", "ibm3580"   # HP Ultrium Tape
"HP",       "Ultrium 2", "ibm3580"   # HP Ultrium Tape
"HP",       "Ultrium 3", "ibm3580"   # HP Ultrium Tape
"Plasmon",  "G-Enterprise","plasmong"   # Plasmon G Enterprise
"Plasmon",  "UDO",      "plasmonUDO"    # Plasmon UDO 30GB optical drive
"STK",      "L700",     "stk97xx"   # STK L700 series SCSI
"STK",      "L180",     "stk97xx"   # STK L180 series SCSI
"STK",      "SL500",    "stklxx"    # STK SL500
"STK",      "T10000A",  "stktitan"  # STK titanium drive T10000A
.fi
.ft
.PP
The existence of a device in the previous example file does not
imply that the device is supported by Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBmcf\fR(4).
.SH NOTES
Whenever a new version of Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS
is installed, the existing \fBinquiry.conf\fR
file is copied to \fBinquiry.conf.\fIMMDDYY\fR for reference
and \%back-up purposes.
.PP
During device identification,
the \fIvendor_id\fR and \fIproduct_id\fR values
are only compared through the length of the string supplied in
the \fBinquiry.conf\fR file.
To insure an exact match, the entries should be ordered with 
longer names first.
.SH WARNINGS
This interface is supplied to circumvent problems that occur when
hardware vendors change
the \fIvendor_id\fR and \fIproduct_id\fR values returned.
For example, some hardware vendors return a different
value for a \fIproduct_id\fR if the hardware is supplied by an OEM.
.PP
Sun Microsystems, Inc. does not support mapping untested hardware to
a Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS name.
