.\" $Revision: 1.7 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH nrecycler.cmd 5 "12 Jan 2004"
.SH NAME
nrecycler.cmd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS \%sam-nrecycler commands file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/nrecycler.cmd
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
Commands for controlling 
.BR sam-nrecycler (8)
are read from
.BR /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/nrecycler.cmd .
These commands are given one per line.  
.br
.TP
.BI "logfile = " filename
Set the name of the
log file to
.IR filename.
.SH SAMFSDUMP DEFINITIONS SECTION
The \fBsamfsdumps\fR and \fBendsamfsdumps\fR directives delimit this
section of the \fBnrecycler.cmd\fR file.
.PP
The samfsdump definitions section defines the SAM-FS dump files for
archiver retention capabilities.
Each line specifies the path to a directory containing SAM-FS dump files.
The user is responsible for making sure the list of directories is complete
and all SAM-FS dumps files are contained in the directory list.
The nrecycler cannot validate the SAM-FS dump file list.
.SH EXAMPLE

The following is an example \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/nrecycler.cmd\fP file:

.ft CO
.nf
    samfsdumps
    /samdumps
    endsamfsdumps
.fi
.ft

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sam-nrecycler (8).
