.\" $Revision: 1.24 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH recycler.cmd 5 "12 Jan 2004"
.SH NAME
recycler.cmd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS \%sam-recycler commands file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/recycler.cmd
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
Commands for controlling 
.BR sam-recycler (8)
are read from
.BR /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/recycler.cmd .
These commands are given one per line.  
.br
.TP
.BI "logfile = " filename
Set the name of the
log file to 
.IR filename .
This file shows
the overall media utilization and a sorted list of VSNs in the order
in which they will be recycled.  The default is no log file.  See 
\fBsam-recycler\fP(1M) for more information.
.TP
.BI "no_recycle " "media-type VSN-regexp [VSN-regexp...]"
Disallow
.BR sam-recycler (8)
from recycling the VSNs which match the
\fImedia-type\fP and the regular expression(s),
.IR VSN-regexp .
.TP
.I "robot-family-set" "parameters"
.br
This command sets recycling parameters for a particular library identified by
.IR robot-family-set
(this is the name given as the fourth field in the
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fP
file line defining the
library for which you wish to set the parameters).
.RS
.TP
.I parameter
can be one more of the following:
.RE
.RS
.TP
.BI "-dataquantity " size
This parameter sets a limit of
.I size
bytes on the amount of data
the recycler will schedule for rearchiving in order to clear volumes of
useful data.  Note that the actual number of volumes selected for
recycling may also be dependent on the \fB-vsncount\fP parameter.
The default is 1 gigabyte (1G).
.RE
.RS
.TP
.BI "-hwm " percent
establishes the high-water mark for the media utilization
in the indicated library,
specified as an integer percentage of total capacity.
When the utilization of those volumes exceeds
.IR percent ,
.BR sam-recycler (8)
will begin to recycle the library.
The default is 95.
.RE
.RS
.TP
.B -ignore 
will keep 
.BR sam-recycler (8)
from selecting any candidates from the specified library.
The intent of this parameter is to allow a convenient way of testing other
parameters.
.RE
.RS
.TP
.BI "-mail " mailaddress
will cause 
.BR sam-recycler (8)
to mail a message to the indicated 
.I mailaddress
when a library's media utilization exceeds the high-water mark.  
Omission of 
.I mailaddress
prevents recycling.  If you specify \%\fB-mail\fR, you must specify
a valid \fImailaddress\fR.
.RE
.RS
.TP
.BI "-mingain " percent
This parameter limits selection of volumes for recycling to those which
would increase their free space by
.I percent
or more.
Volumes not meeting the \fB-mingain\fP parameter are not recycled.
The default is based on the capacity of the volume (<200GB 60%, 
>=200GB 90%).
.RE
.RS
.TP
.BI "-vsncount " count
This parameter sets a limit of
.I count
on the number of volumes
the recycler will schedule for rearchiving in order to clear volumes of
useful data.  Note that the actual number of volumes selected for
recycling may also be dependent on the \fB-dataquantity\fP parameter.
The default is 1.
.RE
.LP
To preserve compatibility with pre-existing
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/recycler.cmd
files, an alternative, less powerful, syntax is allowed for the library recycling
parameters command.
.TP
.I "robot-family-set" "robot-high-water" "VSN-minimum-percent-gain"
.I "options"
.br
This command sets recycling parameters for a particular library identified by
.IR robot-family-set
(this is the name given as the fourth field in the
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/mcf\fP
file line defining the
library for which you wish to set the parameters).
.I robot-high-water
establishes the high-water mark for the media utilization
in the indicated library,
specified as an integer percentage of total capacity.
When the utilization of those volumes exceeds
.IR percent ,
.BR sam-recycler (8)
will begin to recycle the library.
The 
.I VSN-minimum-percent-gain
(aka min-gain) value specifies a threshold of space available to be
reclaimed (as an integer percent of total capacity of the VSN) below
which VSNs will not be selected for recycling.
The 
.IR options
consist of zero or more of the following:  
.B ignore 
- which will keep 
.BR sam-recycler (8)
from selecting any candidates from the specified library.
.B mail
.I mailaddress
- which will cause 
.BR sam-recycler (8)
to mail a message to the indicated 
.I mailaddress
when a library's media utilization exceeds the high-water mark.  
Omission of 
.I mailaddress
prevents any mail from being sent.
.TP
.BI "script = " filename
Supply the name of the
file executed when a volume is to be relabeled.
The default is
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/recycler.sh
.SH ARCHIVER'S COMMAND FILE
The archiver's command file,
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd\fP,
can also
specify recycling parameters for archive sets.    Each archive set
which has recycling parameters applied in
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/archiver.cmd\fP
will be
considered as a pseudo library containing just the VSNs which the archiver
assigns to the archive set.  See 
.BR archiver.cmd (5)
for more information.
Archive set
names may not be specified in the
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/recycler.cmd\fP
file.

.SH DEFAULT FILE

If there is no \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/recycler.cmd\fP file, then, for each library,
a line is constructed:
 
.I library
.B -dataquantity 1G
.B -hwm 95
.B -ignore
.B -mail root
.B -mingain 50
.B -vsncount 1
.br

and logging is disabled.

.SH EXAMPLE

The following is an example \fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/recycler.cmd\fP file:

.ft CO
.nf
    logfile = /var/adm/recycler.log
    lt20 -hwm 75 -mingain 60 -ignore
    hp30 -hwm 90 -mingain 60 -mail root
    gr47 -hwm 95 -mingain 60 -ignore mail root
    no_recycle lt DLT.*
.fi
.ft

The results of
.BR sam-recycler (8)
operation are
found in
.BR /var/adm/recycler.log .
Three libraries are defined with various
high-water marks.  The first library is not recycled, but the usage
information for the VSNs it contains will appear in the log, and no mail
will be generated.  The second
library is recycled (that is, VSNs are emptied of valid archive
images and relabeled) and root is sent e-mail when the library exceeds
the 90% high-water mark.  The third library is not recycled, but
root is notified if usage exceeds the high-water mark.

For hp30, only VSNs whose recycling would free up at least
60% of the capacity of the VSN are considered.  

No medium which is of media type \fIlt\fP and whose VSN begins with DLT
will be recycled.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sam-recycler (8).
.PP
.BR archiver.cmd (5),
.BR mcf (5).
