.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH sam_worm 5 "25 Apr 2006"
.SH NAME
sam_worm \- SAM-QFS Write Once Read Many (WORM) features
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs SUNWsamfs\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The Write Once Read Many (WORM) feature is available
in the \%SAM-QFS filesystem in the SUNWsamfswm package.
The WORM feature allows you to retain files for a
specified period of time.  This period can be as long as the
life of the system or as short as 1 minute, and is stored in
filesystem metadata.  A \%SAM_QFS filesystem is made "WORM-capable"
by one of the following mount options:
.RS 2
.TP 2
\(bu
worm_capable
.TP
\(bu
worm_lite
.TP
\(bu
worm_emul
.TP
\(bu
emul_lite
.RE
.PP
These mount options control the actions needed to enable
WORM files and directories and the actions that can be
performed on these files and directories once they're
made WORM-capable.  A directory is made WORM capable when the WORM
trigger is applied to it.  Likewise, a file is made into a
WORM file when the WORM trigger is applied to an ordinary file
in a WORM capable directory.  Note, the file must be fully populated
before the trigger is applied as the file's contents can't be
modified afterward.  \%SAM-QFS supports two WORM triggers, they
are:
.RS 2
.TP 2
\(bu
chmod 4000 \fIfilename\fR
.TP
\(bu
chmod -w \fIfilename\fR
.RE
.PP
The "chmod 4000" command is the WORM trigger when the "worm_capable"
or "worm_lite" mount option is used.  Removing the write permissions,
that is, the transition from a writable to read-only file is the WORM
trigger when the "worm_emul" or "emul_lite" mount option is used.
.PP
.SS "The WORM trigger and Retention Periods"
When the WORM trigger is applied to a file or directory,
a period of time, known as a retention period, is associated with it.
The retention period is used to indicate how long a file will
be protected from change.  When a file has an active retention
period, it can not be renamed, removed, or have its
path altered. When the period expires, a file may only be removed
or have its retention period extended.
.PP
The retention period can be set or extended by advancing the access
time of the associated file or directory.  The difference between
the current time and the access time is used as the
retention period.  Setting the retention period on a directory
sets the default retention period for files created in the
directory.  This period is applied to files if a retention period
is not specified when the WORM trigger is used.  In addition, this
period is inherited by all sub-directories created in this
directory. Note, a directory's default retention period can
be increased or decreased, while a file's period can only be
increased.
.PP
.SS "Default Retention Periods"
A default retention period can also be set using the mount option
"def_retention=n", where "n" is a simple integer value
representing minutes or a variable format MyNdOhPm in which M, N,
O, P are arbitrary non-negative integers and the
characters y, d, h, m represent the number of years, days, hours,
and minutes.  The default retention period is applied to a
directory if a retention period is not specified when the WORM
trigger is applied.  If no default period is given, the system
default of 30 days is used.
.PP
.SS "WORM Lite"
The WORM lite option relaxes some of the restrictions on WORM
files.  This is enabled when the "worm_lite" or "emul_lite"
mount options are used.  Only the system administrator is
allowed to carry out the following actions:
.RS 2
.TP 2
\(bu
Shorten retention periods on files
.TP
\(bu
Remove retained files before their period expires
.TP
\(bu
Rebuild "lite" enabled volumes (using sammkfs)
.RE
.PP
WORM Lite is a solution for document management
and retention policies requiring data retention guarantees
without the strict constraints that full WORM implementations
place on systems.
