'\" t
.\" $Revision: 1.20 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH sefdata 5 "03 Dec 2001"
.SH NAME
sefdata \- Collects System Error Facility (SEF) data for \%Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and \%Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/sef/sefdata\fR
.PP
\fB#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/sefvals.h"\fR
.PP
\fB#include "/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/sefstructs.h"\fR
.fi
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWsamfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBsefdata\fR file contains the data gathered from the log sense
pages of peripheral tape devices used by Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
and Sun \%SAM-QFS file systems.
Each time the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS or Sun \%SAM-QFS software
unloads a cartridge from
a drive, pertinent log sense pages are obtained from the device, and 
a record is written to the \fBsefdata\fR file.  Each record consists of
a header followed by some number of log sense pages.
.PP
The record header has the format of a \fBsef_hdr\fR structure.  This
structure is defined in \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/sefstructs.h\fR,
and it has the following components:
.PP
.ft CO
.nf
struct sef_hdr {
    uint_t      sef_magic;          /* magic # for app to sync file posn */
    uint_t      sef_version;        /* version number */
    uint_t      sef_size;           /* size of this record, excl. header */
    uint16_t    sef_eq;             /* equipment number of this device */
    char        sef_devname[128];   /* pathname of device */
    uchar_t     sef_vendor_id[9];   /* vendor id from inquiry */
    uchar_t     sef_product_id[17]; /* product id from inquiry */
    uchar_t     sef_revision[5];    /* revision level from inquiry */
    uchar_t     sef_scsi_type;      /* device type from inquiry */
    vsn_t       sef_vsn;            /* vsn of media that was mounted */
    time_t      sef_timestamp;      /* timestamp of this record */
}
.fi
.ft
.PP
The fields of the \fBsef_hdr\fR structure have the following meanings:
.TP 15
\fBField\fR
\fBContent\fR
.TP
\fBsef_magic\fR
Has the value \fBSEFMAGIC\fR, as defined
in \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/sefvals.h\fR.
.TP
\fBsef_version\fR
Has the value \fBSEFVERSION\fR, as defined
in \fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/sefvals.h\fR.
.TP
\fBsef_size\fR
The size of this record, excluding the header.
.TP
\fBsef_eq\fR
The equipment number of the device, as configured in the \fBmcf\fR file.
For more information, see the \fBmcf\fR(4) man page.
.TP
\fBsef_devname\fR
A character string containing the path name of the device.
.TP
\fBsef_vendor_id\fR
The vendor identification of the device, as obtained from inquiry.
.TP
\fBsef_product_id\fR
The product identification of the device, as obtained from inquiry.
.TP
\fBsef_revision\fR
The revision level of the device, as obtained from inquiry.
.TP
\fBsef_scsi_type\fR
The device type, as obtained from inquiry.
.TP
\fBsef_vsn\fR
Volume Serial Name (VSN) of the volume mounted in the device when the
data was generated.
.TP
\fBsef_timestamp\fR
Time that this record as written to the data file.
.LP
Following the header in each record is some number of log sense pages.
Each log sense page consists of a \%SCSI-standard header followed by
triplets of parameter codes, control values, and parameter values.
For the exact format of the log sense pages returned by the devices in
use at your site, consult the documentation provided with those devices.
.SH FILES
.TP 20
\fBFile\fR
\fBPurpose\fR
.TP
\fB/var/opt/SUNWsamfs/sef/sefdata\fR
Contains SEF information.
.TP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/sefvals.h\fR
Contains values, such as those for \fBSEFMAGIC\fR and \fBSEFVERSION\fR.
.TP
\fB/opt/SUNWsamfs/include/sefstructs.h\fR
Contains include files for the SEF header, the \%SCSI-standard
header, and other structures.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fISun StorEdge \%SAM-FS Storage and Archive Management Guide\fR.
.PP
\fBsefreport\fR(1M),
\fBsefsysevent\fR(4).
