.\" $Revision: 1.4 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or https://illumos.org/license/CDDL.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.na
.nh
.TH shrink.cmd 5 "19 Feb 2009"
.SH NAME
shrink.cmd \- Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS shrink command file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/shrink.cmd\fR
.SH AVAILABILITY
SUNWsamfs
.SH DESCRIPTION
Directives for controlling the shrink
can be read from the
\fB/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/shrink.cmd\fR file.
The directives must appear one per line.
.PP
Comment lines are permitted.  Comment lines must begin with a
pound character (\fB#\fR), and the comment can extend through the
rest of the line.
.PP
Directives that appear prior to any \fBfs=\fR directive
are applied to all file systems.
Directives that appear after a \fBfs=\fR directive are applied
to the specified file system only.
Directives that are specific to a file system override general
directives.
.PP
The miscellaneous directives control whether a log file is
written, whether to stage back on-line files that were released,
other aspects of shrinking.
.RE
.SH MISCELLANEOUS DIRECTIVES
The following miscellaneous directives can be specified in
the \fBshrink.cmd\fR file:
.TP
.B "block_size = " \fIn\fR
Sets the buffer size to read the .inodes file in units of megabytes.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 1 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 16.
The default \fIn\fR=1MB.
.TP
.B "display_all_files"
Writes the name for each file, as it is encountered, to the log file.
This directive allows you to see the result of executing the remove or
release command.  By default, the file names are not displayed to the
log file.
.TP
.B "do_not_execute"
Writes the name for each file, as it is encountered, to the log file.
This directive allows you to judge the effects of executing the remove
or release command, without actually executing the command.  By default,
the command is executed.
.TP
.BI "fs = " file_system_family_set_name
Specifies to the shrink that
the subsequent directives apply to the
indicated \fIfile_system_family_set_name\fR only.
.TP
.BI "logfile = " filename
Sets the name of the shrink's log file to \fIfilename\fR.
By default, no log file is written.
.TP
.BI "stage_files"
The files released are staged back on-line.
By default, released files are not staged back on-line.
See \fIstage\fR.
.TP
.BI "stage_partial"
The partial size released for files is staged back on-line.
By default, the partial size is not staged back on-line.
See \fIstage -p\fR.
.TP
.B "streams = " \fIn\fR
Sets the number of threads to be used to shrink the equipment.
For \fIn\fR, specify an integer such that 1 \(<= \fIn\fR \(<= 128.
The default \fIn\fR=8.
.SH EXAMPLES
Example 1.  This
example file sets the \fBstreams\fR directive for
the \fBsamfs1\fR file system. A shrink log is produced.
.ft CO
.nf

          fs = samfs1
          streams = 64
          logfile = /var/adm/shrink.log

.fi
Example 2.  This example specifies stage parameters and log
files for each file system.
.ft CO
.nf

          display_all_files
          logfile = /var/adm/default.shrink.log

          fs = samfs1

          stage_files
          stage_partial
          logfile = /var/adm/samfs1.shrink.log

          fs = samfs2

          stage_partial
          logfile = /var/adm/samfs2.shrink.log

.fi
.ft
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBrelease\fR(1),
\fBstage\fR(1).
.PP
\fBmount_samfs\fR(1M),
\fBsam-shrink\fR(1M).
