.\" $Revision: 1.30 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.TH stk 5 "02 Jun 2004"
.SH NAME
stk \- The StorageTek interface through ACSAPI
.SH AVAILABILITY
.LP
SUNWsamfs
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBstk\fP is the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS interface to the
StorageTek libraries.
This interface utilizes the ACSAPI interface supplied by StorageTek.
The Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS software package installs the libraries and daemons
for the client side of the API.
For more information on ACSAPI and interfacing the StorageTek libraries, see
the documentation supplied with the StorageTek hardware and server side daemons.
.SH CONFIGURATION
It is assumed that the site has the server daemons (CSI and ACSLM) 
configured and operating with the StorageTek library.
.LP
The \fBEquipment Identifier\fP field in the \fBmcf\fP file, (see \fBmcf\fR(4)),
is the full path name to a parameters file used by \fBstk\fP.  This file
consists of \fIkeyword\fR = \fIvalue\fP and \fIpath_name\fR = \fIvalue\fP pairs.
All \fIkeyword\fP, \fIpath_name\fP, and \fIvalue\fP entries are case-sensitive.
.LP
The \fIkeywords\fR are:
.TP 8
.B access
This is the \fIuser_id\fR used by this client
for access control.  If this parameter is not supplied, the access control
string will be a null string (no \fIuser_id\fR).
.TP
.B hostname
This is the \fIhostname\fR for the server that is running ACSLS.  If the
hostname is not supplied, the default will be localhost.  All sites should
set this value.
.TP
.B ssihost
This is the name used for the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS server when a
multihomed Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS server is used.
The \fIssihost\fR would be the name of the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS 
server on the lan connecting to the ACSLS host.  Only sites where a
multihomed Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS server
is used need to supply an ssihost value. The default will be 
localhost.
.TP
.B portnum
This is the \fIportnum\fR for SSI services on the server that is running ACSLS.
If the port number is not supplied, the default is 50004.  Please note
that if you are running co-hosted ACSLS 5.3 or higher, the default value does 
not work (try a higher port number, like 50014).  If you are running multiple
connections to ACSLS servers, then the port number for each \fBstk\fP configuration
file needs to be unique (for example, 50014 in one, 50015 in the next, etc.).
.TP
.B ssi_inet_port
This is the fixed port number for incoming responses and specifies the port the
SSI will use for incoming ACSLS responses in a firewall environment.
Valid values are 1024 - 65535, and 0. Setting this environmental variable
to a non-zero value makes the SSI use this port for incoming ACSLS responses.
This means that the firewall needs to allow incoming requests on that port 
in order for the ACSLS responses to be received by the SSI. Setting this
value to zero or leaving it unset indicates that the previous behavior of
allowing the port to be dynamically allocated will remain in effect.
.TP
.B csi_hostport
This firewall environmental variable specifies the port to which the SSI 
will send its ACSLS requests on the ACSLS server. Setting this variable 
eliminate queries to the portmapper on the ACSLS server and instead, 
sends requests to this port on the ACSLS server. Valid values are
1024 - 65535, and 0. Setting this variable to zero or leaving it unset
indicates that the previous behavior of querying the portmapper on the
ACSLS server will continue to be used.
.TP
.B capid
This specifies the CAP (Cartridge Access Port) to be used for exporting 
of volumes when the \fI-f\fR option is used with
export command.
Following the \fIcapid\fP is the description of this CAP in terms of
the StorageTek library.  This description starts with an open parenthesis
followed by 3 \fIkeyword\fR = \fIvalue\fR pairs followed by a close parenthesis.
The \fIkeyword\fR = \fIvalue\fR pairs between the parentheses may be separated
by a comma (,), a colon (:) or by white space.
.LP
.RS
.TP
.B acs
is the ACS number for this CAP as configured in the StorageTek library.
.TP
.B lsm
is the LSM number for this CAP as configured in the StorageTek library.
.TP
.B cap
is the CAP number for this CAP as configured in the StorageTek library.
.LP
.RE
.TP
.B capacity
This is used to set the capacity of the media supported by the StorageTek.
The parameter to \fBcapacity\fP is a comma separated list of
\fIindex\fR = \fIvalue\fR pairs enclosed in parentheses.  \fIindex\fR is the index into
the media_type file (supplied by StorageTek and located on the ACS system)
and \fIvalue\fR is the capacity of that media type in units of 1024 bytes.
You should only need to supply this entry if the ACS is not returning the
correct media type or new media types have been added.
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS have defaults
for index values that were current at the time of release.
Generally, it is necessary to supply an \fIindex\fR only for new
cartridge types.  For the capacity of each cartridge type, see
the \fISun StorEdge \%SAM-FS Storage and Archive Management Guide\fR.
.TP
.I device_path_name
There is one \fIdevice_path_name\fP entry
for every drive attached to this client.  The \fIdevice_path_name\fP is the
path to the device on the client. 
This name must match the Equipment Identifier of an
entry in the \fBmcf\fR file.
Following the \fIdevice_path_name\fP is the description of this drive
in terms of the StorageTek library.  This description starts with an open parenthesis
followed by 4 \fIkeyword\fR = \fIvalue\fR pairs followed by a close parenthesis.
The \fIkeyword\fR = \fIvalue\fR pairs between the parentheses may be separated
by a comma (,), a colon (:) or by white space. Following the close parenthesis
is an optional keyword used by Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and
Sun \%SAM-QFS software to designate
when a drive is shared with other Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS
and Sun \%SAM-QFS servers.
The keyword identifiers and their meanings are as follows:
.LP
.RS
.TP
.B acs
is the ACS number for this drive as configured in the StorageTek library.
.TP
.B lsm
is the LSM number for this drive as configured in the StorageTek library.
.TP
.B panel
is the PANEL number for this drive as configured in the StorageTek library.
.TP
.B drive
is the DRIVE number for this drive as configured in the StorageTek library.
.TP
.B shared
The shared keyword follows the close parenthesis. This keyword is optional 
and is used to indicate the drive is shared with other
Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS servers.
.LP
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
Here is a sample parameters file and \fBmcf\fP entries 
for a StorageTek library:
.LP
.RS
.ft CO
.nf
#
# This is file: /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/stk50
#
hostname = acsls_server_name
portnum = 50004
ssi_inet_port = 0
csi_hostport = 0
access = some_user  # No white space allowed in the user_id field
capid = (acs=0, lsm=1, cap=0)
/dev/rmt/0cbn = (acs=0, lsm=1, panel=0, drive=1)         #a comment
/dev/rmt/1cbn = (acs=0, lsm=1, panel=0, drive=2) shared  #a comment
capacity = (0=215040, 1=819200, 5=10485760)
.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
The \fBmcf\fP file entries that reference this configuration file are:
.LP
.RS 
.ft CO
.nf
#
# Sample mcf file entries for a StorageTek library
#
/etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/stk50  	50  sk  sk50   - /var/opt/SUNWsamfs/catalog/sk50
/dev/rmt/0cbn        		51  st  sk50   -
/dev/rmt/1cbn        		52  st  sk50   -
.fi
.ft
.RE
.LP
.SH IMPORT/EXPORT
Since the physical adding and removing 
of cartridges in the StorageTek library is done with
ACSLM utilities, the \fBimport/export\fP commands and GUI buttons will only
affect the library catalog.  The \fBimport\fP command has optional
parameters for supplying a single volume to be added or to add a number of
volumes from a pool 
(see \fBimport\fR(1M)).
\fBexport\fP (see 
\fBexport\fR(1M)) will remove an entry from the catalog.
.SH CATALOG
The Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and
Sun \%SAM-QFS systems automatically build a library
catalog for a StorageTek automated library.  However, you must populate
the library catalog.  For information on populating the library
catalog, see the \fISun StorEdge \%SAM-FS Storage
and Archive Management Guide\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP 30
.B mcf
The configuration file for the Sun StorEdge \%SAM-FS and Sun \%SAM-QFS software.
.TP
.B /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/scripts/ssi.sh
A shell script used to start \fBssi_so\fP.
.TP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/ssi_so
A shared object version of the SSI daemon supplied by StorageTek.
.TP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/lib/stk/*
The libraries needed by the API interface supplied by StorageTek.
.TP
.B /opt/SUNWsamfs/sbin/stk_helper
A program to issue commands for the StorageTek ACSAPI
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR build_cat (8),
.BR dump_cat (8),
.BR export (8),
.BR import (8),
.BR sam-robotsd (8).
.PP
.BR mcf (5).
.PP
.BR ssi_so (8).
.PP
\fISun StorEdge \%SAM-FS Storage and Archive Management Guide\fR.

