." $Revision: 1.8 $
.ds ]W Sun Microsystems
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_begin
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER START
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing.
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" When distributing Covered Code, include this CDDL HEADER in each
.\" file and include the License file at pkg/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE.
.\" If applicable, add the following below this CDDL HEADER, with the
.\" fields enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying
.\" information: Portions Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
.\"
.\" CDDL HEADER END
.\"
.\" Copyright 2009 Sun Microsystems, Inc.  All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms.
.\"
.\" SAM-QFS_notice_end
.nh
.na
.TH SUNW.qfs 5 "4 Aug 2004"
.SH NAME
SUNW.qfs \- Resource type implementation for the Sun StorEdge QFS
shared file system in a Sun Cluster environment
.SH AVAILABILITY
\fBSUNWqfs\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBSUNW.qfs\fR resource type implementation supports the
Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system installed in a Sun Cluster
environment.
It defines a failover resource for the shared file system's
metadata server (MDS).
.PP
The Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system must be
configured to use Sun Cluster
\fBdid\fR devices in the \fBmcf\fR(4) file.
Additionally, the Sun Cluster \%node-private hostnames (see \fBscconf\fR(1M))
must be used in the shared hosts file (see \fBhosts.fs\fR(4))
for the host IP addresses.
.SS Standard Properties
See \fBr_properties\fR(5) for a complete description of the
following resource properties:
.PP
.nf
\fBValidate_timeout\fR
Minimum: 60
Default: 180
.PP
\fBBoot_timeout\fR
Minimum: 30
Default: 300
.PP
\fBPrenet_start_timeout\fR
Minimum: 60
Default: 300
.PP
\fBFini_timeout\fR
Minimum: 60
Default: 120
.PP
\fBUpdate_timeout\fR
Minimum: 60
Default: 120
.PP
\fBRetry_Count\fR
Maximum: 10
Default: 2
Tunable: Anytime
.PP
\fBRetry_Interval\fR
Maximum: 3600
Default: 300
Tunable: Anytime
.PP
\fBThorough_probe_interval\fR
Maximum: 3600
Default: 60
Tunable: Anytime
.PP
\fBFailOver_Mode\fR
Default: SOFT
Tunable: Anytime
.PP
\fBThorough_Probe_Interval\fR
Maximum: 3600
Default: 60
Tunable: Anytime
.fi
.SS Extension Properties
.PP
\fBQFSFileSystem\fR
.nf
Type: string array
Default: none
Tunable: Anytime
.fi
.br
This property lists the mount points of the file systems under
the control of the resource type.
The mount points must appear in the \fB/etc/vfstab\fR file.
The associated file systems must be \fBsamfs\fR file systems.
.PP
\fBMonitor_retry_count\fR
.nf
Default: 4
Tunable: Anytime
.fi
.br
This property controls the restarts of the fault monitor.
This property indicates the
number of times that the fault monitor is restarted by
the Process Monitor Facility (PMF) and corresponds to
the \%\fB-n\fR option passed to the \fBpmfadm\fR(1M) command.
The number of restarts is counted in a specified time
window (see the property \fBMonitor_retry_interval\fR).
Note that this property refers to the restarts of the
fault monitor itself, not the Sun StorEdge QFS daemons.
.PP
\fBMonitor_retry_interval\fR
.nf
Default: 2
Tunable: Anytime
.fi
.br
This property indicates that
the failures of the fault monitor are counted and
corresponds to the \%\fB-t\fR option passed to the \fBpmfadm\fR(1M)
command.
If the number of times the fault monitor
fails exceeds the extension property
\fBMonitor_retry_count\fR, the fault monitor is not restarted
by the process monitor facility.
.PP
\fBProbe_timeout\fR
.nf
Default: 120
Minimum: 2
Tunable: Anytime
.fi
.br
This property indicates the time out interval (in seconds)
that the probe method is allowed.
.PP
\fBChild_mon_level\fR
.nf
Default: -1
Tunable: Anytime
.fi
.br
This property indicates to the PMF monitor the level of child
process monitoring indicated.  -1 disables child monitoring;
Values of zero or larger enable PMF -C monitoring of the specified level.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBExample 1. A shared hosts file.\fR
.PP
This example shows a shared hosts file for file system \fBsqfs1\fR,
an already existing, unmounted, idle file system, and replacing
its shared hosts file with one suitable for use with
the \fBSUNW.qfs\fR agent.
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
example# samsharefs -R sqfs1
#
# Host file for family set 'sqfs1'
#
# Version: 4    Generation: 317     Count: 3
# Server = host 0/ash, length = 83
#
ash ash-qfe0 1 - server
elm elm-qfe0 2 -
oak oak-qfe0 3 -
example# cat /etc/opt/SUNWsamfs/hosts.sqfs1
#
# Host file for 'sqfs1'
#
ash clusternode1-priv 1 - server
elm clusternode2-priv 2 -
oak clusternode3-priv 3 -
example# samsharefs -uR sqfs1
#
# Host file for family set 'sqfs1'
#
# Version: 4    Generation: 318    Count: 3
# Server = host 0/ash, length = 110
#
ash clusternode1-priv 1 - server
elm clusternode2-priv 2 -
oak clusternode3-priv 3 -
example# samd config
.ft
.fi
.PP
\fBExample 2. Instantiating a Failover MDS Resource.\fR
.PP
This example assumes that the data service is installed.
This example instantiates a failover Sun StorEdge QFS MDS resource
named \fBqfs-rs\fR in a resource group named \fBqfs-rg\fR.
The \fBqfs-rg\fR resource group is assumed to contain at least one
logical host name resource,
which identifies the logical host names associated with
the resource group.
.PP
.nf
.ft CO
example# scrgadm -a -t SUNW.qfs
example# scrgadm -a -g qfs-rg -j qfs-rs -t SUNW.qfs \e
.br
-x QFSFileSystem=/global/qfs1,/global/qfs2
.ft
.fi
.PP
The \fBqfs-rg\fR resource group
must contain a valid Sun StorEdge QFS mount point
as its \fBQFSFileSystem\fR property.
.PP
.SH NOTES
The mount point provided must be the mount point of a
Sun StorEdge QFS shared file system.  The file system should be mounted
on all resource nodes when the resource group is brought online.
.PP
Sun StorEdge QFS file systems that are not shared
must use the HAStoragePlus resource type.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBscha_resource_get\fR(1HA).
.PP
\fBpmfadm\fR(1M),
\fBsamd\fR(1M),
\fBsamsharefs\fR(1M),
\fBscconf\fR(1M),
\fBscrgadm\fR(1M),
\fBscswitch\fR(1M).
.PP
\fBhosts.fs\fR(4),
\fBmcf\fR(4),
\fBvfstab\fR(4).
.PP
\fBattributes\fR(5),
\fBr_properties\fR(5).
.PP
\fISun Cluster 3.1 Data Services Installation and Configuration Guide\fR
